Courage to Strengthen 


Kneeling in just her shift, Egwene frowned at the dark green silk riding
dress she had worn into the Waste, what seemed a very long time ago.
There was so much to do. She had given some time to writing a hasty note
and rousing Cowinde from her blankets with instructions to leave it at
The Long Man in the morning. It said little beyond the fact that she had
to go away—she did not know much more—but she could not just disappear
without telling Gawyn. A few of the phrases made her blush to
remember—saying she loved him was one thing, but actually asking him
to wait!—yet she had taken care of him as far as was possible. Now she
had to ready herself, and she hardly knew for what.

The tent flap was thrown back, and Amys entered, then Bair and Sorilea.
They stood in a line, looking down at her. Three faces stern with
disapproval. It was very hard not to clutch the dress to her breast; in
her shift, she felt very much at a disadvantage. In armor, she would
have been at a disadvantage. A matter of knowing she was in the wrong.
She was surprised it had taken them so long to come.

She took a deep breath. “If you’ve come to punish me, I don’t have time
for carrying water or digging holes or any of it. I am sorry, but I said
I would come as soon as I can, and I think they mean to count minutes.”

Amys’ pale eyebrows rose in surprise, and a puzzled look passed between
Sorilea and Bair. “How should we punish you?” Amys asked. “You
stopped being a pupil the moment your sisters
summoned you. You must go to them as Aes Sedai.”

Egwene covered a wince by examining the riding dress again. It had
gathered remarkably few wrinkles for having been rolled up in a chest
all these months. She made herself face them again. “I know you’re angry
with me, and you have cause—”

“Angry?” Sorilea said. “We are not angry. I thought you knew us better.”
It was true she did not sound angry, yet censure still painted all their
faces, including hers.

Egwene stared from one to another, especially Amys and Bair. “But you
told me how wrong you think what I’m going to do is; you said I must not
even think about it. I said I wouldn’t, and then I went ahead and worked
out how to do it.”

Startlingly, a smile bloomed on Sorilea’s leathery face. Her multitude
of bracelets clattered as she shifted her shawl in a satisfied manner.
“You see? I told you she would understand. She could be Aiel.”

Some of the tightness faded from Amys, a little more from Bair, and
Egwene understood. They were not angry that she meant to try entering
Tel’aran’rhiod in the flesh. That was wrong in their eyes, but you had
to do what you felt you had to do, and even if this worked it incurred
no obligation except to herself. Not angry at all really, not yet. What
dug at them was her lie. Her stomach fluttered. The lie she had
admitted. Maybe her smallest lie.

Another deep breath was required to prime her throat for the words. “I
lied about other things, too. I entered Tel’aran’rhiod alone after I
promised I would not.” Amys’ face darkened again. Sorilea, not a
dreamwalker, only shook her head ruefully. “I promised to obey as a
pupil, but when you said the World of Dreams was too dangerous after I
was injured, I went anyway.” Bair folded her arms, expressionless.
Sorilea muttered something about foolish girls, but it hardly sounded
heated. A third long breath; this would be the hardest to say. Her
middle was not fluttering anymore; it danced so hard she was surprised
she was not shaking. “The worst of all is, I am not Aes Sedai. I’m only
Accepted. You might call me an apprentice. I will not be raised to Aes
Sedai for years, if I ever am, now.”

Sorilea’s head came up at that, thin lips compressed in a hard line, but
still none of them said anything. It was up to Egwene to make matters
right. They could never be exactly as before, but. . . .

You’ve admitted everything, a small voice whispered. Now you’d better
get on with finding out how fast you can reach Salidar. You can still be
raised Aes Sedai one day, but not if you make them madder than they
already are.

Egwene lowered her eyes and stared at the
colorful layered carpets, her mouth twisting with scorn. Scorn for that
small voice. And shame that it could speak in her head, that she could
think it. She was going away, but before she did, she had to put matters
right. It was possible, under ji’e’toh. You did what you had to do,
then paid the cost. Long months ago, in the Waste, Aviendha had showed
her how a lie was paid for.

Gathering every scrap of courage she could find, hoping it was enough,
Egwene put the silk dress aside and stood. Strangely, beginning seemed
to make going on easier. She still had to look up to meet their, eyes,
but she did it proudly, head high, and she did not have to force the
words at all. “I have toh.” Her stomach was not fluttering any longer.
“I ask the favor, that you will help me meet my toh.” Salidar was
going to have to wait.

 

Leaning on his elbow, Mat examined the game of Snakes and Foxes laid out
on the tent floor. Occasionally a drop of sweat fell from his chin, just
missing the board. It was not a board at all, really, just a piece of
red cloth with the web of lines drawn in black ink, and arrows showing
which lines allowed movement only one way and which both. Ten pale
wooden discs each with an inked triangle were the foxes, ten with a wavy
line the snakes. Two lamps set to either side gave more than enough
light.

“We will win this time, Mat,” Olver said excitedly. “I know we will.”

“Maybe,” Mat said. Their two blackstained discs were nearly back to the
circle in the middle of the board, but the next roll of the dice would
be for the snakes and foxes. Most of the time you did not make it as far
as the outer edge. “Roll the dice.” He never touched the dice cup
himself, not since the day he had given it to the boy; if they were
going to play the game, it might as well be without his luck taking a
hand.

With a grin, Olver rattled the leather cup and spilled out the wooden
dice his father had made. He groaned as he counted the pips; this time
three dice showed faces marked with a triangle, the other three wavy
lines. On their turn you had to move the snakes and foxes toward your
own pieces by the shortest path, and if one landed on the point you
occupied. . . . A snake touched Olver, a fox Mat, and Mat could see if
the rest of the pips had been played, two more snakes would have reached
him.

Only a child’s game, and one you would not win so long as you followed
the rules. Soon Olver would be old enough to realize that, and like
other children, stop playing. Only a child’s game, but Mat did not like
the fox getting him, and even less the snakes.
It brought back bad memories, even if one had nothing to do with the
other.

“Well,” Olver muttered, “we almost won. Another game, Mat?” Not waiting
for an answer, he made the sign that opened the game, a triangle and
then a wavy line through it, then chanted the words. “ ‘Courage to
strengthen, fire to blind, music to dazzle, iron to bind.’ Mat, why do
we say that? There is no fire, no music and no iron.”

“I don’t know.” The line tickled something in the back of his head, but
he could not bring it up. The old memories from the ter’angreal might
as well have been chosen at random—they probably had been—and there were
all those gaps in his own, all those fuzzy places. The boy was always
asking questions he did not know the answer to, usually beginning with
“why.”

Daerid ducked in out of the night and gave a start of surprise. Face
shining with sweat, he still had his coat on, if hanging undone. His
newest scar made a pink furrow across the white lines crisscrossing his
face.

“I think it’s past your bedtime, Olver,” Mat said, pushing himself up.
His wounds gave a few twinges, but only a few; they were healing just
fine. “Put the board up.” He stepped close to Daerid and lowered his
voice to a whisper. “If you ever tell about this, I’ll cut your throat.”

“Why?” Daerid asked dryly. “You are turning into a wonderful father. He
shows a remarkable resemblance to you.” He seemed to be struggling with
a grin, but a moment later it was gone. “The Lord Dragon is coming into
camp,” he said, as serious as death.

Thoughts of punching Daerid in the nose vanished. Mat pushed the tent
flap aside and ducked into the night in his shirtsleeves. Six of
Daerid’s men, in a circle around the tent, stiffened when he appeared.
Crossbowmen; pikes certainly would not be much good for guards. It was
night, but not dark in the camp. The bright glow of a waxing
threequarter moon in a cloudless sky was washed out by the light of
fires spaced among the rows of tents and men sleeping on the ground.
Sentries stood every twenty paces all the way to the log palisade. Not
the way Mat would have preferred it, but if an attack could pop out of
the air. . . .

The land lay nearly flat here, so he had a clear view of Rand striding
toward him. Not alone. Two veiled Aiel moved on their toes, heads
swiveling every time one of the Band rolled over in his sleep or a
sentry shifted his feet to watch them. That Aiel woman Aviendha was with
him as well, a bundle across her back, stalking along as if she would go
for the throat of anyone who got in her way. Mat did not understand why
Rand kept her around. Aielwomen are nothing but
trouble, he thought bleakly, and I’ve never seen a woman more set to
give trouble than that one.

“Is that really the Dragon Reborn?” Olver asked breathlessly. Clutching
the rolledup game to his chest, he was almost bouncing.

“It is,” Mat told him. “Now get off to bed. This is no place for boys.”

Olver went, muttering reproachfully, but only as far as the next tent.
Out of the corner of his eye Mat saw the boy dart out of sight; his face
reappeared, peering around the corner.

Mat left him alone, though after getting a good look at Rand’s face, he
wondered whether this was any place for grown men, let alone a boy. That
face could have been used to hammer down a wall, but some emotion
struggled to break through, excitement or maybe eagerness; Rand’s eyes
held a fevered light. He had a wide piece of rolled parchment in one
hand, while the other stroked his sword hilt unconsciously. The Dragon
belt buckle glittered in the firelight; sometimes the head of one of the
Dragons peeking out from his coatsleeves did too.

When he reached Mat, he wasted no time with greetings. “I need to talk
to you. Alone. I need you to do something.” The night was a black oven,
and Rand wore a goldembroidered green coat with a high collar, but he
was not sweating a drop.

Daerid, Talmanes and Nalesean stood a few paces away in various states
of undress, watching. Mat motioned them to wait, then nodded toward his
tent. Following Rand in, he fingered the silver foxhead though his
shirt. He had nothing to worry about, at least. He hoped he did not.

Rand had said alone, but apparently Aviendha did not think that applied
to her. She stayed a firm two paces from him, no more and no less;
mostly she watched Rand with an unreadable face, but now and then she
glanced at Mat, frowning and eyeing him up and down. Rand paid her no
attention, and for all his seeming haste before, he showed none now. He
looked around the tent, though Mat wondered uneasily whether he was
seeing it. There was not much to see. Olver had set the lamps back on
the small folding table. The chair folded, too, and so did the washstand
and the cot. All were blacklacquered, with lines of gilt; if a man had
coin, he might as well spend it on something. The slits the Aiel had
made in the tent wall had been mended neatly, but they still showed.

The silence dug at Mat. “What is this, Rand? I hope you haven’t decided
to change the plan at this late date.” No answer, only a look as if Rand
had just remembered he was there. It made Mat nervous. Whatever Daerid
and the rest of the Band thought, he worked hard at keeping clear
of battles. Sometimes, though, being ta’veren
worked against his luck; that was the way he saw it. He believed Rand
had something to do with that; he was more strongly ta’veren, strong
enough that at times Mat almost felt a pulling. When Rand put his finger
in, Mat would not be surprised to find himself in the middle of a battle
if he was asleep in a barn. “A few more days, and I’ll be in Tear. The
ferries will take the Band across the river, and a few days beyond that
will see us with Weiramon. It’s too bloody late to go meddling—”

“I want you to bring Elayne to . . . to Caemlyn,” Rand broke in. “I want
you to see her safe to Caemlyn, whatever happens. Don’t leave her side
until she’s on the Lion Throne.” Aviendha cleared her throat. “Yes,”
Rand said. For some reason his voice went as cold and hard as his face.
But then, did he need reasons if he was going mad? “Aviendha is going
with you. I think it’s best.”

“You think it is best?” she said indignantly. “If I had not wakened
when I did, I would never have known you had found her. You do not send
me anywhere, Rand al’Thor. I must speak with Elayne for my . . . my own
reasons.”

“I am very glad you’ve found Elayne,” Mat said carefully. If he was
Rand, he would leave the woman wherever she was. Light, Aviendha would
be better! At least Aielwomen did not walk around with their noses in
the air, or think you should jump just because they said so. Of course,
some of their games were on the rough side, and they did have the habit
of trying to kill you now and again. “I just don’t understand why you
need me. Jump through one of your gateways, give her a kiss, scoop her
up and jump back.” Aviendha fastened an outraged stare on him; you would
have thought he had advised kissing her.

Rand unrolled the large parchment on the table, using the lamps to hold
down the ends. “This is where she is.” It was a map, a stretch of the
River Eldar and maybe fifty miles or so to either side. An arrow had
been drawn in blue ink, pointing into forest. “Salidar” was printed
beside the arrow. Rand tapped near the eastern edge of the map. That was
wooded, too; most of it was. “There is a large clearing here. You can
see the nearest village is nearly twenty miles north. I’ll put a gateway
through to the clearing for you and the Band.”

Mat managed to turn a wince into a grin. “Look, if it has to be me, why
not just me? Make your gateway to this Salidar, I’ll toss her on a
horse, and . . .” And what? Was Rand going to make a gateway from
Salidar to Caemlyn as well? It was a long way to ride, from the Eldar to
Caemlyn. A very long way, with only a snooty noblewoman and an Aiel for
company.

“The Band, Mat,” Rand snapped. “You and the
whole Band!” He drew a long shuddering breath, and his tone became
milder. His face did not lose its rigidity, though, and his eyes were
still feverish. Mat could almost believe he was sick, or in pain. “There
are Aes Sedai in Salidar, Mat. I don’t know how many; hundreds, I’ve
heard, but I won’t be surprised if it is closer to fifty. The way they
go on about the Tower, whole and pure, I doubt you’ll see more. I mean
to put you out two or three days away so they can learn you’re coming.
No point in startling them—they might think you were a Whitecloak
attack. They’re rebels against Elaida, and probably frightened enough
that you won’t have to do more than loom a little and say Elayne has to
be crowned in Caemlyn to make them let her go. If you think they can be
trusted, offer your protection. And mine; they’re supposed to be on my
side, and they might be glad of even my protection by now. Then you
escort Elayne—and as many of the Aes Sedai as want to come—straight
across Altara and Murandy to Caemlyn. Show my banners, announce what
you’re doing, and I don’t think the Altarans or Murandians will give
much trouble, not as long as you keep moving. If you find any
Dragonsworn along the way, gather them in as well. Most will probably
turn to bandits if I don’t tie a rope to them soon—I’ve heard a rumor or
two already—but you will draw them, flying my banners.” His sudden grin
showed teeth, but never touched those hot eyes. “How many birds with one
stone, Mat? You ride through Altara and Murandy with six thousand men
and draw the Dragonsworn out after you, and you may hand me both
countries.”

There was so much in that to set Mat’s teeth on edge that he no longer
cared whether Rand had ten sore teeth and both boots full of
cockleburrs. Make Aes Sedai think he meant to attack them? Indeed not.
And he was supposed to intimidate fifty of them? Aes Sedai did not
frighten him, maybe not even five or six together, but fifty? He touched
the foxhead through his shirt again before he realized it; he might just
find out how lucky he really was. As for riding across Altara and
Murandy, he could see it now. Every noble whose lands he crossed would
swell up like a strutting rooster and try to peck him the moment his
back was turned. If that ta’veren madness came into it, he would
probably find some lord or lady gathering an army right in front of him.

He made one more try. “Rand, don’t you think this might draw Sammael’s
eyes north? You want him looking east. That is why I’m here, remember?
To make him look this way.”

Rand shook his head emphatically. “All he’ll see is a guard of honor
escorting the Queen of Andor to Caemlyn, and
that’s if he learns of it before you reach Caemlyn. How quickly can you
be ready?”

Mat opened his mouth, then gave it up. He was not going to budge the
man. “Two hours.” The Band could be booted and in their saddles faster,
but he was in no hurry, and the last thing he wanted was the Band
thinking they were moving on the attack.

“Good. I need an hour or so myself.” For what, he did not say. “Stay
close to Elayne, Mat. Keep her safe. I mean, there’s no point to this if
she doesn’t reach Caemlyn alive for her coronation.” Did Rand think he
did not know about him and Elayne canoodling in every corner of the
Stone the last time they were together?

“I’ll treat her like my own sister.” His sisters had done their best to
make his life miserable. Well, he expected the same from Elayne, just in
a different way. Maybe Aviendha would be a little better. “She won’t get
out of my sight until I plunk her down in the Royal Palace.” And if she
tries Mistress Snoot on with me too often, I’ll bloody well kick her!

Rand nodded. “That reminds me. Bodewhin is in Caemlyn. With Verin and
Alanna, and some more Two Rivers girls. They’re on their way to train
for Aes Sedai. I’m not sure where they will do it; I am certainly not
letting them go to the Tower the way things are. Maybe the Aes Sedai you
bring back will take care of it.”

Mat gaped. His sister, Aes Sedai? Bode, who used to run tell their
mother every time he did anything that was fun?

“Another thing,” Rand went on. “Egwene may be in Salidar before you. I
think somehow they found out she’s been calling herself Aes Sedai. Do
what you can to get her out of it. Tell her I will get her back to the
Wise Ones as soon as I can. She’ll probably be more than ready to go
with you. Maybe not, though; you know how stubborn she’s always been.
The main thing is Elayne. Remember, don’t leave her side till she
reaches Caemlyn.”

“I promise,” Mat muttered. How under the Light could Egwene be somewhere
on the Eldar? He was sure she had been in Cairhien when he left Maerone.
Unless she had worked out Rand’s trick with the gateways. In which case
she could jump back any time she wished. Or jump to Caemlyn, and make a
gateway for him and the Band at the same time. “Don’t worry about
Egwene, either. I’ll drag her out of whatever trouble she’s in, no
matter how muley she behaves.” It would not be the first time he had
pulled her chestnuts off the hearth before they burned. Very likely he
would get no thanks for it this time either. Bode was going to be Aes
Sedai? Blood and bloody ashes!

“Good,” Rand said. “Good.” But he was staring
intently at the map. He jerked his eyes away, and for an instant Mat
thought he intended to say something to Aviendha. Instead, he turned
away from her roughly. “Thom Merrilin should be with Elayne.” Rand
produced a letter from his pocket, folded and sealed. “See that he gets
this.” Shoving the letter into Mat’s hands, he hurriedly left the tent.

Aviendha took a step after him, halfraising a hand, lips parted to
speak. Just as suddenly her mouth snapped shut, and she buried her hands
in her skirts and squeezed her eyes shut. So the wind came that way, did
it? And she wants to talk to Elayne. How did Rand ever get himself in
this pickle? Rand was always the one who knew how to handle women, Rand
and Perrin.

Still, it was no concern of his. He turned the letter over in his hands.
Thom’s name was written in a feminine hand; the seal was one he did not
recognize, a spreading tree topped by a crown. What noblewoman would be
writing to a leathery old man like Thom? Not his concern either. Tossing
the letter on the table, he picked up his pipe and pouch. “Olver,” he
said, stuffing the bowl with tabac, “ask Talmanes, Nalesean and Daerid
to come to me.”

There was a squeak just outside the door flap, then, “Yes, Mat,” and the
sound of scurrying feet.

Aviendha looked at him, folding her arms with a firm expression.

He forestalled her. “So long as you travel with the Band, you are under
my command. I want no trouble, and I expect you to see there isn’t any.”
Should she start anything, he would deliver her to Elayne tied to a
packsaddle, if it took ten men to put her there.

“I know how to follow, battle leader.” She punctuated that with a sharp
sniff. “But you should know that not all women are wetlander soft. If
you try putting a woman on a horse when she does not want to go, she may
put a knife in your ribs.”

Mat nearly dropped the pipe. He knew Aes Sedai could not read minds—if
they could, his hide would have been hanging on a wall in the White
Tower long since—but maybe Aiel Wise Ones. . . . Of course not. It’s
just one of those tricks women pull. He could figure out how she did it
if he put his mind to it. He just did not care to put his mind to it.

Clearing his throat, he stuck the unlit pipe between his teeth and bent
to study the map. The Band could probably cover the distance from the
clearing to Salidar in a day if he pushed, even in that wooded terrain,
but he intended to take two, or even three. Give the Aes Sedai plenty of
warning; he did not want them any more frightened than they already
were. A frightened Aes Sedai was almost a
contradiction. Even wearing the medallion he was not eager to learn what
a frightened Aes Sedai might do.

He felt Aviendha’s eyes on the back of his neck, heard a rasping sound.
Sitting crosslegged against the tent wall, she was drawing her belt
knife along a honing stone and watching him.

When Nalesean entered with Daerid and Talmanes, he greeted them with,
“We are going to tickle some Aes Sedai under the chin, rescue a mule,
and put a snipnosed girl on the Lion Throne. Oh, yes. That’s Aviendha.
Don’t look at her crosswise, or she’ll try to cut your throat and
probably slit her own by mistake.” The woman laughed as if he had made
the funniest joke in the world. She did not stop sharpening her knife,
though.

 

For a moment Egwene could not understand why the pain had stopped
increasing. Then she pushed herself up from the carpets of her tent and
stood, sobbing so hard she quivered. She wanted very much to blow her
nose. She did not know how long she had been crying that hard; she only
knew she felt on fire from the top of her hips to the backs of her
knees. Standing still was a problem she barely mastered. The shift she
had thought of as scant protection had been discarded some time back.
Tears rolled down her face, and she stood there and bawled.

Sorilea and Amys and Bair regarded her soberly, and they were not the
only ones, though most of the rest were sitting about on cushions or
stretched out, talking and enjoying tea served by a slender gai’shain.
A woman, thank the Light. They were all women, Wise Ones and
apprentices, women Egwene had told she was Aes Sedai. She was grateful
that just letting them think she was did not count; she could not have
survived that! It was the telling, the spoken lie, but there had been
surprises. Cosain, a lean yellowhaired Spine Ridge Miagoma, had said
gruffly that Egwene had no toh toward her but she would stay for the
tea, and so had Estair. Aeron, on the other hand, seemed to want to cut
her in two, and Surandha. . . .

Trying to blink away the haze of tears, Egwene glanced toward Surandha.
She was sitting with three Wise Ones, chatting and occasionally looking
in Egwene’s direction. Surandha had been absolutely merciless. Not that
any of them had gone easy. The belt Egwene had found in one of her
chests was thin and supple, but twice as wide as her hand, and these
women all had strong arms. A halfdozen or so strokes from each added
up.

Egwene had never felt so ashamed in her life. Not that she was naked and
redfaced and weeping like a baby. Well, the weeping was part. Not
even that they had all watched her strapped,
when not taking their own turns. What shamed her was that she had taken
it so badly. An Aiel child would have been more stoic. Well, a child
would never have had to face it, but the principle was the simple truth.

“Is it over?” Was that thick, unsteady voice really hers? How these
women would laugh if they knew how carefully she had gathered her
courage.

“Only you know the worth of your honor,” Amys said flatly. She held the
belt dangling at her side, using the wide buckle as a handle. The murmur
of conversation had ceased.

Egwene drew a long, shaking breath through her sobs. All she had to do
was say it was done, and it was. She could have said enough after one
blow from each woman. She could. . . .

Wincing, she knelt and stretched herself out on the carpets. Her hands
went beneath Bair’s skirts to grasp the woman’s bony ankles through her
soft boots. This time she would hold on to her courage. This time she
would not cry out. This time she would not kick, or thrash about,
or. . . . The belt had not hit her yet. Raising her head, she blinked
her eyes clear to glare at them. “What are you waiting for?” Her voice
still shook, but there was more than a note of anger too. Making her
wait on top of everything else? “I have a journey to make tonight, in
case you’ve forgotten. Get on with it.”

Amys tossed the belt down beside Egwene’s head. “This woman has no toh
toward me.”

“This woman has no toh toward me.” That was Bair’s thin voice.

“This woman has no toh toward me,” Sorilea said forcefully. Bending,
she smoothed damp hair from Egwene’s face. “I knew you were Aiel in your
heart. Do not be overproud now, girl. You have met your toh. Get up
before we think you are boasting.”

Then they were helping her to her feet, hugging her and wiping away her
tears, holding a handkerchief for her to finally blow her nose. The
other women gathered around, each announcing that this woman had no
toh toward her before adding her own hugs and smiles. It was the
smiles that were the biggest shock; Surandha beamed at her as brightly
as ever. But of course. Toh did not exist once it was met; whatever
earned it might as well never have happened. A bit of Egwene that was
not wrapped up in ji’e’toh thought that maybe what she had said at the
end helped, too, as well as getting back down in the first place.
Perhaps she had not faced it with the indifference of an Aiel in the
beginning, but at the end, Sorilea was right. {#page_610
.calibre14}She had been Aiel in her heart. She thought a part of her
heart always would be Aiel.

The Wise Ones and apprentices left slowly. Apparently they should remain
the rest of the night or longer, all laughing and talking with Egwene,
but that was just custom, not ji’e’toh, and with Sorilea’s help she
managed to convince them that she just did not have the time. At last it
was only her, Sorilea and the two dreamwalkers. All the hugs and smiles
had slowed her tears to a trickle, and if her lips still trembled no
matter what she did, she could still smile. In truth, she wanted to cry
again, if for a different reason. Partly for a different reason; she
was on fire.

“I am going to miss all of you so much.”

“Nonsense.” Sorilea snorted for emphasis. “If you have luck, they will
tell you you can never be Aes Sedai now. Then you can return to us. You
will be my apprentice. In three or four years, you will have your own
hold. I even know the husband for you. My greatdaughter Amaryn’s
youngest greatson, Taric. He will be a clan chief one day, I think, so
you must watch for a sisterwife to be his roofmistress.”

“Thank you.” Egwene laughed. It seemed she had something to fall back on
if the Hall in Salidar did send her away.

“And Amys and I will meet you in Tel’aran’rhiod,” Bair said, “and tell
you what we know of events here, and with Rand al’Thor. You will go your
own way in the World of Dreams now, but if you wish it, I will still
teach you.”

“I do wish it.” If the Hall let her anywhere near Tel’aran’rhiod. But
then, they could not keep her out; whatever they did, they could not do
that. “Please keep a close eye on Rand and the Aes Sedai. I don’t know
what he is playing, but I’m sure it is more dangerous than he thinks.”

Amys said nothing about more teaching, of course. She had given her word
on a course of action, and even meeting toh did not erase that.
Instead, she said, “I know Rhuarc will regret not being here tonight. He
has gone north to look at the Shaido for himself. Do not be afraid your
toh toward him must go unmet. He will give you the opportunity when
you meet once more.”

Egwene gaped, and covered by blowing her nose for what seemed the tenth
time. She had forgotten all about Rhuarc. Of course, nothing said she
had to pay her obligation to him in the same way. Maybe her heart was
at least partly Aiel, but for a moment her mind sought frantically for
another method. There had to be one. And she would have plenty of time
to find it before seeing him again. “I will be very grateful,” she said
faintly. And there was Melaine, too. And
Aviendha. Light! She had thought she was done with it. Her feet kept
shifting no matter how hard she tried to hold still. There had to be
another way.

Bair opened her mouth, but Sorilea cut her off. “We must let her clothe
herself. She has a journey to begin.” Bair’s thin neck stiffened, and
Amys’ mouth turned down. Clearly neither liked what Egwene was going to
try any more than before.

Maybe they meant to stay and try talking her out of it, but Sorilea
began muttering only half under her breath about fools who tried to stop
a woman from doing what she thought she had to do. The younger pair
straightened their shawls—Bair had to be seventy or eighty, but she
certainly still was younger than Sorilea—gave Egwene a farewell hug and
left with murmurs of, “May you always find water and shade.”

Sorilea waited only a moment longer. “Think on Taric. I should have
asked him to the sweat tent so you could see him. Until you can,
remember this. We are always more afraid than we wish to be, but we can
always be braver than we expect. Hold on to your heart, and the Aes
Sedai cannot harm what is really you, your heart. They are not nearly so
far above us as we believed. May you always find water and shade,
Egwene. And always remember your heart.”

Alone, Egwene merely stood for a time, staring at nothing and thinking.
Her heart. Perhaps she did have more courage than she thought. She had
done what she had to do here; she had been Aiel. In Salidar, she was
going to need that. Aes Sedai methods differed from the Wise Ones’ in
some respects, but they would not go easy if they knew she had called
herself Aes Sedai. If they knew. She could not imagine why else they
would summon her so coldly, but Aiel did not surrender before battle was
joined.

With a start she came to herself. If I’m not going to surrender before
fighting, she thought wryly, I might as well get on to the battle.

 


