From the Stedding 


Rand had just begun thumbing tabac into his short pipe when Liah put her
head in at the door. Before she could speak, a panting roundfaced man
in redandwhite livery pushed past her, and fell to his knees before
Rand while she stared in amazement.

“My Lord Dragon,” the fellow burst out in a breathless squeak, “Ogier
have come to the Palace. Three of them! They have been given wine, and
offered more, but they insist only on seeing the Lord Dragon.”

Rand made his voice easy; he did not want to frighten the man. “How long
have you been in the Palace . . . ?” The fellow’s livery coat fit him,
and he was not young. “I’m afraid I don’t know your name.”

The kneeling man goggled. “My name? Bari, my Lord Dragon. Uh, twentytwo
years, my Lord Dragon, come Winternight. My Lord Dragon, the Ogier?”

Rand had visited an Ogier stedding twice, but he was not sure of the
proper etiquette. Ogier had built most of the great cities, the oldest
parts of them, and still came out of their stedding occasionally to
make repairs, yet he doubted Bari would have been this excited for
anyone else less than king or Aes Sedai. Maybe not for them. Rand
stuffed pipe and tabac pouch back into his pocket. “Take me to them.”

Bari leaped to his feet, all but bouncing on his toes. Rand suspected he
had made the right choice; the man showed no surprise that the Lord
Dragon was going to the Ogier instead of having
them brought to him. He left his sword and the scepter behind; Ogier
would not be impressed by either. Liah and Cassin came, of course, and
it was plain Bari would have run back as well if not for the necessity
of keeping his pace to Rand’s.

The Ogier waited in a courtyard with a fountain, its basin filled with
lily pads and red and gold fish, a whitehaired man in a long coat that
flared above high boots with their tops turned down, and two women, one
noticeably much younger than the other, their skirts embroidered in
vines and leaves, the elder’s considerably more elaborate than the
younger’s. Golden goblets made for humans seemed tiny in their hands.
Several trees retained some of their leaves, and the Palace itself gave
shade. The Ogier were not alone; when Rand appeared, Sulin and a good
three dozen Maidens were crowded around them, and Urien, plus fifty or
more Aielmen. The Aiel had the grace to fall silent when they saw Rand.

The Ogier man said, “Your name sings in my ears, Rand al’Thor,” in a
voice like rumbling thunder and gravely made introductions. He was
Haman, son of Dal son of Morel. The older woman was Covril, daughter of
Ella daughter of Soong, and the younger was Erith, daughter of Iva
daughter of Alar. Rand remembered seeing Erith once, in Stedding Tsofu,
a hard twoday ride from the city of Cairhien. He could not imagine what
she was doing in Caemlyn.

The Ogier made the Aiel seem small; they made the courtyard seem small.
Haman stood over half again as tall as Rand and broad in proportion,
Covril less than a head—an Ogier head—shorter than that, and even Erith
topped Rand by nearly a foot and a half. Yet that was the smallest
difference between Ogier and humans. Haman’s eyes were as large and
round as teacups, his broad nose nearly covered his face, and his ears
stood up through his hair, tipped with white tufts. He wore long
drooping white mustaches and a narrow beard beneath his chin, and his
eyebrows hung down to his cheeks. Rand could not have said precisely how
Covril’s and Erith’s faces differed—except for lacking beards and
mustaches, of course, and their eyebrows were not quite so long or
thick—but they seemed somehow more delicate. Though Covril’s was quite
stern at the moment—she looked familiar, too, for some reason—and Erith
appeared worried, her ears sagging.

“If you will forgive me a moment,” Rand told them.

Sulin did not let him get another word out. “We came to talk with the
Treebrothers, Rand al’Thor,” she said firmly. “You must know the Aiel
have long been waterfriends to the Treebrothers.
We go to trade in their stedding often.”

“That is quite true,” Haman murmured. For an Ogier, it was a murmur. An
avalanche somewhere out of sight.

“I am sure the others did come to talk,” Rand told Sulin. He could pick
out the members of her guard this morning by eye, every last one of
them; Jalani blushed a deep red. On the other hand, aside from Urien, no
more than three or four of the morning’s Red Shields were there. “I
would not like to think I need to ask Enaila and Somara to take you in
charge.” Sulin’s tanned face darkened with indignation, making the scar
she had taken following him stand out more. “I would talk with them
alone. Alone,” he emphasized, eyeing Liah and Cassin. “Unless you think
I need protection from them?” If anything that made her more offended,
and she gathered up the Maidens with quick flashes of handtalk in what
for anyone but an Aiel would surely have been called a huff. Some of the
Aielmen were chuckling as they left; Rand supposed he had made a joke of
some kind.

As they went, Haman stroked his long beard. “Humans have not always
thought us so safe, you know. Um. Um.” His musing sounded like a huge
bumblebee. “It is in the old records. Very old. Only fragments, really,
but dating from just after—”

“Elder Haman,” Covril said politely, “if we may stick to the matter at
hand?” This bumblebee rumbled at a higher pitch.

Elder Haman. Where had Rand heard that before? Each stedding had its
Council of Elders.

Haman sighed deeply. “Very well, Covril, but you are showing unseemly
haste. You barely gave us time to wash before coming here. I vow, you’ve
begun to leap about like. . . .” Those big eyes flickered toward Rand,
and he covered a cough with a hand the size of a large ham. Ogier
considered humans hasty, always trying to do now what could not possibly
matter until tomorrow. Or until next year; Ogier took a very long view.
They also thought it insulting to remind humans of how they leaped
about. “This has been a most exacting journey Outside,” Haman went on,
explaining to Rand, “not the least of it discovering that the Shaido
Aiel had besieged Al’cair’rahienallen—most extraordinary, that—and that
you were actually there, but then you left before we could speak with
you, and. . . . I cannot help feeling we have been impetuous. No. No,
you speak, Covril. It is for you I left my studies, and my teaching, to
go running across the world. My classes will be
in riot by now.” Rand almost grinned; the way Ogier normally did things,
Haman’s classes would take half a year to decide he really was gone and
a year more to discuss what to do about it.

“A mother has some right to be anxious,” Covril said, tufted ears
quivering. She seemed to be battling between the respect due an Elder
and a most unOgierlike impatience. When she turned to Rand, she drew
herself up, ears standing straight and chin firm. “What have you done
with my son?”

Rand gaped. “Your son?”

“Loial!” She stared as if he were mad. Erith was peering at him
anxiously, hands clutched to her breast. “You told the Eldest of the
Elders of Stedding Tsofu that you would look after him,” Covril marched
on. “They told me you did. You did not call yourself Dragon then, but it
was you. Wasn’t it, Erith? Did Alar not say Rand al’Thor?” She did not
give the younger woman time for more than a nod. As her voice picked up
speed, Haman began to look pained. “My Loial is too young to be Outside,
too young to be running across the world, doing the things you no doubt
have him doing. Elder Alar told me about you. What has my Loial to do
with the Ways and Trollocs and the Horn of Valere? You will hand him
over to me now, please, so I can see him properly married to Erith. She
will settle his itchy feet.”

“He’s very handsome,” Erith murmured shyly, her ears quivering so hard
with embarrassment that the dark tufts blurred. “And I think he’s very
brave, too.”

It took Rand a moment to regain his balance mentally. An Ogier being
firm sounded much the same as a mountain falling. An Ogier being firm
and speaking rapidly. . . .

By Ogier lights, Loial was too young to have left the stedding
alone, little more than ninety. Ogier were very longlived. From the
first day Rand had met him, all full of eagerness to see the world,
Loial had been worried over what would happen when the Elders realized
he had run away. Most of all, he worried about his mother coming after
him with a bride in tow. He said the man had no say in these things
among Ogier, and the woman not much; it was all the two mothers’ doing.
It was not beyond possibility to find yourself betrothed to a woman you
had never met before the day your mother introduced you to your
prospective bride and motherinlaw.

Loial seemed to think marriage would be the end of everything for him,
certainly to all his wishes to see the world, and whether it would or
not, Rand could not hand a friend over to what
he feared. He was about to say he did not know where Loial was and
suggest they return to the stedding until he came back—he had his
mouth open to say it—when a question occurred to him. It embarrassed him
that he could not remember something so important; to Loial, it was.
“How long has he been out of the stedding?”

“Too long,” Haman grumbled like boulders rolling downhill. “The boy
never wanted to apply himself. Always talking about seeing Outside, as
if anything has really changed from what’s in the books he should have
been studying. Um. Um. What real change is it if humans change the lines
on a map? The land is still—”

“He has been Outside much too long,” Loial’s mother put in as firmly as
a post driven into dry clay. Haman frowned at her, and she managed to
stare back at him just as firmly although her ears vibrated in
embarrassment.

“Mmore than five years now,” Erith said. For a moment her ears wilted,
then shot up and stubbornly back. In a very good imitation of Covril,
she said, “I want him to be my husband. I knew that when I first saw
him. I will not let him die. Not from being foolish.”

Rand and Loial had talked of many things, and one of them had been the
Longing, although Loial had not liked talking about it. When the
Breaking of the World drove humans to flee for whatever safety they
could find, it drove Ogier from the stedding too. For long years
humans had wandered in a world that changed sometimes by the day,
hunting that safety, and Ogier had wandered, hunting for the stedding
lost in the changing land. It was then that the Longing entered them. An
Ogier away from the stedding wanted to return. An Ogier long from the
stedding needed to return. An Ogier too long from the stedding died.

“He told me of an Ogier who stayed out longer,” Rand said quietly. “Ten
years, I think he said.”

Haman was shaking his massive head before Rand finished. “It will not
do. That I know of, five have remained Outside that long and survived to
return, and I think I would know if more had. Such madness would be
written about and talked about. Three of those died within a year of
coming home, the fourth was an invalid for the rest of his life, and the
fifth little better, needing a stick to walk. Though she did continue
writing. Um. Um. Dalar had some interesting things to say concerning—”
This time when Covril opened her mouth, his head whipped around; he
stared at her, long eyebrows humping up, and she began smoothing her
skirts furiously. But she stared right back. “Five years is a short
time, I know,” Haman told Rand, while watching
Covril sharply from the corner of his eye, “but we are tied to the
stedding now. We heard nothing in the city to indicate that Loial is
here—and from the excitement we ourselves caused, I think we would
have—but if you will tell us where he is, you will be doing him a very
great kindness.”

“The Two Rivers,” Rand said. Saving a friend’s life was not betraying
him. “When I last saw him, he was setting out in good company, with
friends. It’s a quiet place, the Two Rivers. Safe.” It was now, again,
thanks to Perrin. “And he was well a few months ago.” Bode had said as
much when the girls were telling what had happened back home.

“The Two Rivers,” Haman muttered. “Um. Um. Yes, I know where that is.
Another long walk.” Ogier seldom rode, there being few horses that could
bear them, and they preferred their own feet in any case.

“We must start out immediately,” Erith said in a firm if light rumble.
Light compared to Haman. Covril and Haman looked at her in surprise, and
her ears wilted completely. She was, after all, a very young woman
accompanying an Elder and a woman Rand suspected was of some importance
in her own right from the way she stood up to Haman. Erith was probably
not a day over eighty.

Smiling at the thought—a slip of a girl; maybe only seventy—Rand said,
“Please accept the hospitality of the Palace. A few days’ rest might
even make your journey faster. And you might be able to help me, Elder
Haman.” Of course; Loial was always talking about his teacher, Elder
Haman. Elder Haman knew everything, according to Loial. “I need to
locate the Waygates. All of them.”

All three Ogier spoke at once.

“Waygates?” Haman said, ears and eyebrows both shooting up. “The Ways
are very dangerous. Far too dangerous.”

“A few days?” Erith protested. “My Loial could be dying.”

“A few days?” Covril said on top of her. “My Loial could be—” She cut
off, staring at the younger woman, lips compressed and ears quivering.

Haman frowned at them both, stroking his narrow beard irritably. “I do
not know why I let myself be talked into this. I should be teaching my
classes, and speaking to the Stump. If you were not such a respected
Speaker, Covril. . . .”

“You mean if you were not married to my sister,” she said stoutly.
“Voniel told you to do your duty, Haman.” Haman’s brows lowered till the
long ends hung on his cheeks, and her ears seemed to lose most of their
stiffness. “I meant to say she asked you,” she went on. Not hurriedly,
exactly, not losing aplomb, but definitely not
hesitating. “By the Tree and stillness, I meant no offense, Elder
Haman.”

Haman harrumphed loudly—which for an Ogier meant very loudly—and turned
to Rand, tugging his coat as if it had been disarrayed.

“Shadowspawn are using the Ways,” Rand said before Haman could speak. “I
have set guards on the few I can reach.” Including the one outside
Stedding Tsofu, plainly after their departure. These three could not
have walked all the way from Stedding Tsofu after his last futile visit.
“A bare handful. All of them need to be guarded, or else Myrddraal and
Trollocs can come boiling out of nowhere, as far as anybody they catch
is concerned. But I don’t even know where they all are.”

That would still leave gateways, of course. Sometimes he wondered why
one of the Forsaken did not pour a few thousand Trollocs into the Palace
by a gateway. Ten thousand, or twenty. He would be hard pressed to stop
that, if he could stop it at all. It would be a slaughter at best. Well,
he could do nothing about a gateway unless he was there. He could do
something about the Waygates.

Haman exchanged looks with Covril. They drew aside, speaking in a
whisper, and for a wonder, it was low enough that all he heard was a
buzz like a huge swarm of bees on the roof. He must be right about her
having some importance. A Speaker; he had heard the capital. He
considered seizing saidin—he would be able to hear, then—and rejected
it disgustedly. He had not sunk to eavesdropping yet. Erith divided her
attention evenly between her elders and Rand, all the while
unconsciously smoothing her skirts.

Rand hoped they did not inquire why he had not asked his question of the
Council of Elders in Stedding Tsofu. Alar, Eldest of the Elders there,
had been very firm; the Stump was meeting, and nothing so odd—so
peculiar as to never have been thought of before—as handing control of
the Waygates to a human could be done unless the Stump concurred. Who he
was hardly seemed to matter to her any more than it did to these three.

Finally Haman came back frowning and gripping the lapels of his coat.
Covril was frowning too. “This is all very hasty, very hasty,” Haman
said in slow tones like gravel sliding. “I wish I could discuss it
with. . . . Well, I cannot. Shadowspawn, you say? Um. Um. Very well, if
there must be haste, there must be haste. Never let it be said that
Ogier cannot move quickly when needs require, and perhaps they do now.
You must understand, the Council of Elders in any stedding may tell
you no, and so may the Stump.”

“Maps!” Rand shouted, so loudly that all three
Ogier jumped. “I need maps!” He spun around looking for one of the
servants who always seemed to be about, for a gai’shain, anyone. Sulin
put her head into the courtyard through a doorway. She would be nearby,
after everything he had told her. “Maps,” he barked at her. “I want
every map in the Palace. And a pen, and ink. Now! Quickly!” She looked
at him almost disparagingly—Aiel did not use maps, indeed claimed not to
need them—and turned away. “Run, Far Dareis Mai!” he snapped. She
looked over her shoulder at him—and ran. He wished he knew how his face
looked, so he could recall it for use again.

Haman appeared as though he would be wringing his hands if his dignity
had been just a little smaller. “Really, there is very little we can
possibly tell you that you don’t already know. Every stedding has one
just Outside.” The first Waygates could not have been made inside, with
the ability to channel blocked by the stedding itself; even when Ogier
were given the Talisman of Growing, and could themselves make the Ways
grow to a new Waygate, the Power was still involved, if not channeling.
“And all your cities that have Ogier groves. Though it does seem the
city here has grown over the grove. And in Al’cair’rahienallen. . . .”
He trailed off, shaking his head.

The trouble could be summed up by that name. Three thousand years ago,
near enough, there had been a city called Al’cair’rahienallen, built by
Ogier. Today it was Cairhien, and the grove the Ogier builders planted
to remind them of their stedding was part of an estate that had
belonged to the same Barthanes whose palace now housed Rand’s school.
Nobody but Ogier and maybe some Aes Sedai remembered
Al’cair’rahienallen. Not even Cairhienin.

Whatever Haman believed, much could change in three thousand years.
Great Ogierbuilt cities had ceased to exist, some leaving not so much
as a name behind. Great cities had risen that the Ogier had had no hand
in. Amador, begun after the Trolloc Wars, was one, so Moiraine had told
him, and Chachin in Kandor, and Shol Arbela in Arafel, and Fal Moran in
Shienar. In Arad Doman, Bandar Eban had been built on the ruins of a
city destroyed in the War of the Hundred Years, a city Moiraine knew
three names for, each suspect, and itself built on the ruins of a
nameless city that had vanished in the Trolloc Wars. Rand knew of a
Waygate in Shienar, in the countryside near a moderate town that had
kept part of the name of the huge city leveled by Trollocs, and another
inside the Blight, in Shadowmurdered Malkier. Other places there had
simply been change, or growth, as Haman himself
had pointed out. The Waygate here in Caemlyn sat in a basement now. A
wellguarded basement. Rand knew there was a Waygate in Tear, out in the
great pastureland where the High Lords ran their famous horse herds.
There should be one somewhere in the Mountains of Mist, where Manetheren
had once stood, wherever that was. As far as stedding went, he knew
where to find Stedding Tsofu. Moiraine had not considered stedding or
Ogier a vital part of his education.

“You don’t know where the stedding are?” Haman said incredulously when
Rand finished explaining. “Is this Aiel humor? I have never understood
Aiel humor.”

“For Ogier,” Rand said gently, “it has been a long time since the Ways
were made. For humans, it has been a very long time.”

“But you do not even remember Mafal Dadaranell, or Ancohima, or
Londaren Cor, or . . . ?”

Covril put a hand on Haman’s shoulder, but the pity in her eyes was
directed at Rand. “He does not remember,” she said softly. “Their
memories are gone.” She made it sound the greatest loss imaginable.
Erith, hands clasped to her mouth, appeared ready to cry.

Sulin returned, quite deliberately not running, followed by a fat
cluster of gai’shain, their arms filled to overflowing with rolled
maps of all sizes, some long enough to drag on the courtyard paving
stones. One whiterobed man carried an ivoryinlaid writing box. “I have
set gai’shain looking for more,” she said stiffly, “and some of the
wetlanders.”

“Thank you,” he told her. A little of the tautness went from her face.

Squatting down, he began spreading maps right there on the paving
stones, sorting them. A number were of the city, and many of parts of
Andor. He quickly found one showing the whole stretch of the
Borderlands, and the Light knew what that was doing in Caemlyn. Some
were old and tattered, showing borders that no longer applied, naming
countries that had faded away hundreds of years before.

Borders and names were enough to rank the maps by age. On the oldest,
Hardan bordered Cairhien to the north; then Hardan was gone and
Cairhien’s borders swept halfway to Shienar before creeping back as it
became clear the Sun Throne simply could not hold on to that much land.
Maredo stood between Tear and Illian, then Maredo was gone, and Tear and
Illian’s borders met on the Plains of Maredo, slowly falling back for
the same reasons as Cairhien’s. Caralain vanished, and Almoth, Mosara
and Irenvelle, and others, sometimes absorbed by other nations, most
often eventually becoming unclaimed land and wilderness. Those maps told
a story of fading since Hawkwing’s empire
crumbled, of humanity in slow retreat. A second Borderland map showed
only Saldaea and part of Arafel, but it showed the Blightborder fifty
miles farther north too. Humanity retreated, and the Shadow advanced.

A bald, skinny man in illfitting Palace livery scurried into the
courtyard with another armload, and Rand sighed and went on selecting
and discarding.

Haman gravely examined the writing box that was held out to him by the
gai’shain, then produced one almost as large, though quite plain, from
a capacious coat pocket. The pen he took from it was polished wood,
rather fatter than Rand’s thumb and long enough to look slender. It fit
the Ogier’s sausagethick fingers perfectly. He got down on hands and
knees, crawling among the maps as Rand sorted, occasionally dipping his
pen in the gai’shain’s inkpot, annotating in a handwriting that seemed
too large until you realized that for him it was very small. Covril
followed, peering over his shoulder even after he asked the second time
whether she really thought he would make a mistake.

It was an education for Rand, beginning with seven stedding scattered
through the Borderlands. But then, Trollocs feared to enter a
stedding, and even Myrddraal needed some great purpose to drive them
into one. The Spine of the World, the Dragonwall, held thirteen,
including one in Kinslayer’s Dagger, from Stedding Shangtai in the south
to Stedding Qichen and Stedding Sanshen in the north, only a few miles
apart.

“The land truly changed in the Breaking of the World,” Haman explained
when Rand commented. He continued marking briskly, though; briskly for
an Ogier. “Dry land became sea and sea dry land, but the land folded as
well. Sometimes what was far apart became close together, and what was
close, far. Though of course, no one can say whether Qichen and Sanshen
were far apart at all.”

“You forgot Cantoine,” Covril announced, making another liveried servant
drop his fresh armload of maps with a start.

Haman gave her a look and lettered in the name just above the River
Iralell, not far north of Haddon Mirk. In the strip west of the
Dragonwall from the southern border of Shienar to the Sea of Storms,
there were only four, all newfound as the Ogier considered it, meaning
the youngest, Tsofu, had had Ogier back for six hundred years and none
of the others for more than a thousand. Some of the locations were as
big a surprise as the Borderlands, such as the Mountains of Mist, which
had six, and the Shadow Coast. The Black Hills were included, and the
forests above the River Ivo, and the mountains
above the River Dhagon, just north of Arad Doman.

Sadder was the list of stedding abandoned, given up because the
numbers there had grown too few. The Spine of the World and the
Mountains of Mist and the Shadow Coast were in that list too, and so was
a stedding deep on Almoth Plain, near the great forest called the
Paerish Swar, and one in the low mountains along the north of Toman
Head, facing the Aryth Ocean. Perhaps saddest was the one marked on the
very edge of the Blight in Arafel; Myrddraal might be reluctant to enter
a stedding, but as the Blight marched south year by year, it swept
over everything.

Pausing, Haman said sadly, “Sherandu was swallowed by the Great Blight
one thousand eight hundred fortythree years ago, and Chandar nine
hundred sixtyeight.”

“May their memories flourish and flower in the Light,” Covril and Erith
murmured together.

“I know of one you didn’t mark,” Rand said. Perrin had told him of
sheltering in it once. He pulled out a map of Andor east of the River
Arinelle and touched a spot well above the road from Caemlyn to
Whitebridge. It was close enough.

Haman grimaced, almost a snarl. “Where Hawkwing’s city was to be. That
was never reclaimed. Several stedding were found and never reclaimed.
We try to stay away from the lands of men as much as possible.” All of
the marks were in rugged mountains, in places men found hard to enter,
or in a few cases just far from any human habitation. Stedding Tsofu lay
far closer than any other to where humans dwelled, and even then Rand
knew it was a full day to the nearest village.

“This would be a fine discussion another time,” Covril said, directing
her words to Rand yet plainly meaning them for Haman, as her sidelong
looks indicated, “but I want to make as far west as I can before
nightfall.” Haman sighed heavily.

“Surely you’ll stay here awhile,” Rand protested. “You must be
exhausted, walking all the way from Cairhien.”

“Women do not become exhausted,” Haman said, “they only exhaust others.
That is a very old saying among us.” Covril and Erith sniffed in
harmony. Muttering to himself, Haman went on with his listing, but now
it was cities that the Ogier had built, cities where the groves had
been, each grove holding its Waygate to carry Ogier back and forth to
the stedding without passing through the sooften troubled lands of
men.

Caemlyn he marked, of course, and Tar Valon, Tear and Illian, Cairhien
and Maradon and Ebou Dar. That was the end as
far as cities that still existed were concerned, and Ebou Dar he wrote
as Barashta. Perhaps Barashta belonged with the others, in a way, with
the dots made in places where the maps showed nothing but a village if
that. Mafal Dadaranell, Ancohima, and Londaren Cor, of course, and
Manetheren. Aren Mador, Aridhol, Shaemal, Braem, Condaris, Hai Ecorimon,
Iman. . . . As that list grew, Rand began to see damp spots on each map
when Haman was done. It took him a moment to realize that the Ogier
Elder was weeping silently, letting the tears fall as he marked cities
dead and forgotten. Perhaps he wept for the people, perhaps for the
memories. The one thing Rand could be sure of was that it was not for
the cities themselves, not for the lost works of Ogier masons. To the
Ogier, stonework was only something they had picked up during the Exile,
and what work in stone could compare with the majesty of trees?

One of those names more than tugged at Rand’s memories, and its location
as well, east of Baerlon, several days above Whitebridge on the
Arinelle. “There was a grove here?” he said, fingering the mark.

“At Aridhol?” Haman said. “Yes. Yes, there was. A sad business, that.”

Rand did not raise his head. “In Shadar Logoth,” he corrected. “A very
sad business. Could you—would you—show me that Waygate if I took you
there?”

 


