Lightnings 


From the tall arched window, close onto eighty spans above the ground,
not far below the top of the White Tower, Elaida could see for miles
beyond Tar Valon, to the rolling plains and forests that bordered the
broad River Erinin, running down from north and west before it divided
around the white walls of the great island city. On the ground, long
morning shadows must have been dappling the city, but from this
prominence all seemed clear and bright. Not even the fabled “topless
towers” of Cairhien had truly rivaled the White Tower. Certainly none of
Tar Valon’s lesser towers did, for all that men spoke far and wide of
them and their vaulting skybridges.

This high, an almost constant breeze lessened the unnatural heat
gripping the world. The Feast of Lights past, snow should have covered
the ground deep, yet the weather belonged in the depths of a hard
summer. Another sign that the Last Battle approached and the Dark One
touched the world, if more were needed. Elaida did not let the heat
touch her even when she descended, of course. The breeze was not why she
had had her quarters moved up here, despite the inconvenience of so many
stairs, to these simple rooms.

Plain russet floor tiles and white marble walls decorated by a few
tapestries could not compare with the grandeur of the Amyrlin’s study
and the rooms that went with it far below. She still used those rooms
occasionally—they held associations with the power of the Amyrlin Seat
in some minds—but she resided here, and worked here more often than not.
For the view. Not of city or river or forests, though. Of what was
beginning in the Tower grounds.

Great diggings and foundations spread across what had been the Warders’
practice yard, tall wooden cranes and stacks of cut marble and granite.
Masons and laborers swarmed over the workings like ants, and endless
streams of wagons trailed through the gates onto the Tower grounds,
bringing more stone. To one side stood a wooden “working model,” as the
masons called it, big enough for men to enter crouching on their heels
and see every detail, where every stone should go. Most of the workmen
could not read, after all—neither words nor mason’s drawn plans. The
“working model” was as large as some manor houses.

When any king or queen had a palace, why should the Amyrlin Seat be
relegated to apartments little better than those of many ordinary
sisters? Her palace would match the White Tower for splendor, and have a
great spire ten spans higher than the Tower itself. The blood had
drained from the chief mason’s face when he heard that. The Tower had
been Ogierbuilt, with assistance from sisters using the Power. One look
at Elaida’s face, however, set Master Lerman bowing and stammering that
of course all would be done as she wished. As if there had been any
question.

Her mouth tightened with exasperation. She had wanted Ogier masons
again, but the Ogier were confining themselves to their stedding for
some reason. Her summons to the nearest, Stedding Jentoine, in the Black
Hills, had been met with refusal. Polite, yet still refusal, without
explanation, even to the Amyrlin Seat. Ogier were reclusive at best. Or
they might be withdrawing from a world full of turmoil; Ogier stayed
clear of human strife.

Firmly Elaida dismissed the Ogier from her mind. She prided herself on
separating what could be from what could not. Ogier were a triviality.
They had no part in the world beyond the cities they had built so long
ago and seldom visited now except to make repairs.

The men below, crawling beetlelike over the building site, made her
frown slightly. Construction went forward by inches. Ogier might be out
of the question, yet perhaps the One Power could be used again. Few
sisters possessed real strength in weaving Earth, but not that much was
required to reinforce stone, or bind stone to stone. Yes. In her mind,
the palace stood finished, colonnaded walks and great domes shining with
gilt and that one spire reaching to the heavens…. Her eyes rose to the
cloudless sky, to where the spire would peak, and she let out a long
sigh. Yes. The orders would be issued today.

The towering case clock in the room behind her chimed Third Rise, and in
the city gongs and bells pealed the hour, the sound faint here, so high
above. With a smile, Elaida left the window, smoothing her redslashed
dress of cream silk and adjusting the broad, striped stole of the
Amyrlin Seat on her shoulders.

On the ornately gilded clock, small figures of gold and silver and
enamel moved with the chimes. Horned and snouted Trollocs fled from a
cloaked Aes Sedai on one level; on another a man representing a false
Dragon tried to fend off silver lightning bolts that had obviously been
hurled by a second sister. And above the clockface, itself above her
head, a crowned king and queen knelt before an Amyrlin Seat in her
enameled stole, with the Flame of Tar Valon, carved from a large
moonstone, atop a golden arch over her head.

She did not laugh often, but she could not help a quietly pleased
chuckle at the clock. Cemaile Sorenthaine, raised from the Gray, had
commissioned it dreaming of a return to the days before the Trolloc
Wars, when no ruler held a throne without the Tower’s approval.
Cemaile’s grand plans came to naught, however, as did Cemaile, and for
three centuries the clock sat in a dusty storage room, an embarrassment
no one dared display. Until Elaida. The Wheel of Time turned. What was
once, could be again. Would be again.

The case clock balanced the door to her sitting room, and her bedchamber
and dressing room beyond. Fine tapestries, colorful work from Tear and
Kandor and Arad Doman, with threadofgold and threadofsilver
glittering among the merely dyed, hung each exactly opposite its mate.
She had always liked order. The carpet covering most of the tiles came
from Tarabon, patterned in red and green and gold; silk carpets were the
most precious. In each corner of the room a marble plinth carved in
unpretentious verticals held a white vase of fragile Sea Folk porcelain
with two dozen carefully arranged red roses. To make roses bloom now
required the One Power, especially with the drought and heat; a
worthwhile use, in her opinion. Gilded carving covered both the only
chair—no one sat in her presence now—and the writing table, but in the
stark style of Cairhien. A simple room, really, with a ceiling barely
two spans high, yet it would do until her palace was ready. With the
view, it would.

The tall chairback held the Flame of Tar Valon picked out in moonstones
above her dark head as she sat. Nothing marred the polished surface of
the table except for three boxes of Altaran lacquerwork, arranged just
so. Opening the box covered with golden hawks among white clouds, she
removed a slim strip of thin paper from atop the pile of reports and
correspondence inside.

For what must have been the hundredth time, she read the message come
from Cairhien by pigeon twelve days ago. Few in the Tower knew of its
existence. None but she knew its contents, or would have a glimmer of
what it meant if they did. The thought almost made her laugh again.


The ring has been placed in the bull’s nose. I expect a pleasant journey
to market.


No signature, yet she needed none. Only Galina Casban had known to send
that glorious message. Galina, whom Elaida trusted to do what she would
have trusted to no one else save herself. Not that she trusted anyone
fully, but the head of the Red Ajah more than any other. She herself had
been raised from the Red, after all, and in many ways still thought of
herself as Red.


The ring has been placed in the bull’s nose.


Rand al’Thor —the Dragon Reborn, the man who had seemed on the point of
swallowing the world, the man who had swallowed entirely too much of
it—Rand al’Thor was shielded and in Galina’s control. And none who might
support him knew. Even a chance of that, and the wording would have been
different. By various earlier messages, it seemed he had rediscovered
how to Travel, a Talent lost to Aes Sedai since the Breaking, yet that
had not saved him. It had even played into Galina’s hands. Apparently he
had a habit of coming and going without warning. Who would suspect that
this time he had not gone, but been taken? Something very like a giggle
rose in her.

Inside another week, two at most, al’Thor would be in the Tower, closely
supervised and guided safely until Tarmon Gai’don, his ravaging of the
world stopped. It was madness to allow any man who could channel to run
free, but most of all the man prophecy said must face the Dark One in
the Last Battle, the Light send that it lay years off yet in spite of
the weather. Years would be needed to arrange the world properly,
beginning with undoing what al’Thor had done.

Of course, the damage he had wrought was nothing beside what he could
have caused, free. Not to mention the possibility that he might have
gotten himself killed before he was needed. Well, that troublesome young
man would be wrapped in swaddling and kept safe as an infant in his
mother’s arms until time to take him to Shayol Ghul. After that, if he
survived….

Elaida’s lips pursed. The Prophecies of the Dragon seemed to say he
would not, which undeniably would be for the best.

“Mother?” Elaida almost gave a start as Alviarin spoke. Entering without
so much as a knock! “I have word from the Ajahs, Mother.” Slim and
coolfaced, Alviarin wore the Keeper’s narrow stole in white, matching
her dress, to show she had been raised from the White, but in her mouth
“Mother” became less a title of respect and more an address to an equal.

Alviarin’s presence was enough to dent Elaida’s good mood. That the
Keeper of Chronicles came from the White, not the Red, always served as
a biting reminder of her weakness when she was first raised. Some of
that had been dispelled, true, but not all. Not yet. She was tired of
regretting that she had so few personal eyesandears outside Andor. And
that her predecessor and Alviarin’s had escaped—been helped to escape;
they must have had help!—escaped before the keys to the Amyrlin’s great
network could be wrested out of them.

She more than wanted the network that was hers by right. By strong
tradition the Ajahs sent to the Keeper whatever dribbles from their own
eyesandears they were willing to share with the Amyrlin, but Elaida
was convinced the woman kept back some of even that trickle. Yet she
could not ask the Ajahs for information directly. Bad enough to be weak
without going begging to the world. The Tower, anyway, which was as much
of the world as really counted.

Elaida kept her own face every bit as cool as the other woman’s,
acknowledging her only with a nod while she pretended to examine papers
from the lacquered box. Slowly she turned them over one by one, returned
them to the box slowly. Without really seeing a word. Making Alviarin
wait was bitter, because it was petty, and petty ways were all she had
to strike at one who should have been her servant.

An Amyrlin could issue any decree she wished, her word law and absolute.
Yet as a practical matter, without support from the Hall of the Tower,
many of those decrees were wasted ink and paper. No sister would disobey
an Amyrlin, not directly at least, yet many decrees required a hundred
other things ordered to implement them. In the best of times that could
come slowly, on occasion so slowly it never happened, and these were far
from the best.

Alviarin stood there, calm as a frozen pond. Closing the Altaran box,
Elaida kept out the strip of paper that announced her sure victory.
Unconsciously she fingered it, a talisman. “Has Teslyn or Joline finally
deigned to send more than word of their safe arrival?”

That was meant to remind Alviarin that no one could consider herself
immune. Nobody cared what happened in Ebou Dar, Elaida least of all; the
capital of Altara could fall into the sea, and except for the merchants,
not even the rest of Altara would notice. But Teslyn had sat in the Hall
nearly fifteen years before Elaida had commanded her to resign her
chair. If Elaida could send a Sitter—a Red Sitter—who had supported
her rise off as ambassador to a flyspeck throne with no one sure why but
a hundred rumors flowering, then she could come down on anyone. Joline
was a different matter. She had held her chair for the Green only a
matter of weeks, and everyone was sure the Greens had selected her to
show they would not be cowed by the new Amyrlin, who had handed her a
fearsome penance. That bit of insolence could not be allowed to pass, of
course, and had not been. Everyone knew that, too.

It was meant to remind Alviarin that she was vulnerable, but the slim
woman merely smiled her cool smile. So long as the Hall remained as it
was, she was immune. She riffled through the papers in her hand,
plucking one out. “No word from Teslyn or Joline, Mother, no, though
with the news you have received so far from the thrones….” That smile
deepened into something dangerously close to amusement. “They all mean
to try their wings, to see if you are as strong as … as your
predecessor.” Even Alviarin had enough sense not to speak the Sanche
woman’s name in her presence. It was true, though; every king and queen,
even mere nobles, seemed to be testing the limits of her power. She must
make examples.

Glancing at the paper, Alviarin went on. “There is word from Ebou Dar,
however. Through the Gray.” Had she emphasized that, to drive the
splinter deeper? “It appears Elayne Trakand and Nynaeve al’Meara are
there. Posing as full sisters, with the blessings of the rebel …
embassy … to Queen Tylin. There are two others, not identified, who
may be doing the same. The lists of who is with the rebels are
incomplete. Or they may just be companions. The Grays are uncertain.”

“Why under the Light would they be in Ebou Dar?” Elaida said
dismissively. Certainly Teslyn would have sent news of that. “The Gray
must be passing along rumors, now. Tarna’s message said they are with
the rebels in Salidar.” Tarna Feir had reported Siuan Sanche there, too.
And Logain Ablar, spreading those vicious lies no Red sister could lower
herself to acknowledge, much less deny. The Sanche woman had a hand in
that obscenity, or the sun would rise in the west tomorrow. Why could
she not simply have crawled away and died, decently out of sight, like
other stilled women?

It required effort not to draw a deep breath. Logain could be hanged
quietly as soon as the rebels were dealt with; most of the world thought
him dead long since. The filthy slander that the Red Ajah had set him up
as a false Dragon would die with him. When the rebels were dealt with,
the Sanche woman could be made to hand over the keys to the Amyrlin’s
eyesandears. And name the traitors who had helped her escape. A
foolish hope to wish that Alviarin would be named among them. “I can
hardly see the al’Meara girl running to Ebou Dar claiming to be Aes
Sedai, much less Elayne, can you?”

“You did order Elayne found, Mother. As important as putting a leash on
al’Thor, you said. When she was among three hundred rebels in Salidar,
it was impossible to do anything, but she will not be so well protected
in the Tarasin Palace.”

“I have no time for gossip and rumors.” Elaida bit off each word with
contempt. Did Alviarin know more than she should, mentioning al’Thor,
and leashing? “I suggest you read Tarna’s report again, then ask
yourself whether even rebels would allow Accepted to pretend to the
shawl.”

Alviarin waited with visible patience for her to finish, then examined
her sheaf again and pulled out four more sheets. “The Gray agent sent
sketches,” she said blandly, proffering the pages. “He is no artist, but
Elayne and Nynaeve are recognizable.” After a moment, when Elaida did
not take the drawings, she slipped them under the rest.

Elaida felt the color of anger and embarrassment rising in her cheeks.
Alviarin had led her down this path deliberately by not bringing out
those sketches at the first. She ignored that—anything else would only
be more embarrassing still—but her voice became cold. “I want them
taken, and brought to me.”

The lack of curiosity on Alviarin’s face made Elaida wonder again how
much the woman knew that she was not supposed to. The al’Meara girl
might well provide a handle on al’Thor, coming from the same village.
All the sisters knew that, just as they knew that Elayne was
DaughterHeir of Andor, and that her mother was dead. Vague rumors
linking Morgase to the Whitecloaks were so much nonsense, for she would
never have gone to the Children of the Light for help. She was dead,
leaving not even a corpse behind, and Elayne would be Queen. If she
could be wrested away from the rebels before the Andoran Houses put
Dyelin on the Lion Throne instead. It was not widely known what made
Elayne more important than any other noble with a strong claim to a
throne. Aside from the fact that she would be Aes Sedai one day, of
course.

Elaida had the Foretelling sometimes, a Talent many thought lost before
her, and long ago she had Foretold that the Royal House of Andor held
the key to winning the Last Battle. Twentyfive years gone and more, as
soon as it became clear that Morgase Trakand would gain the throne in
the Succession, Elaida had fastened herself to the girl, as she was
then. How Elayne was crucial, Elaida did not know, but Foretelling never
lied. Sometimes she almost hated the Talent. She hated things she could
not control.

“I want all four of them, Alviarin.” The other two were unimportant,
certainly, but she would take no chances. “Send my command to Teslyn
immediately. Tell her—and Joline—that if they fail to send regular
reports from now on, they will wish they had never been born. Include
the information from the Macura woman.” Her mouth twisted around that
last.

The name made Alviarin shift uneasily, too, and no wonder. Ronde
Macura’s nasty little infusion was something to make any sister
uncomfortable. Forkroot was not lethal—at least you woke, if you drank
enough to sleep—but a tea that deadened a woman’s ability to channel
seemed aimed too directly at Aes Sedai. A pity the information had not
been received before Galina went; if forkroot worked on men as well as
it seemed to on women, it would have made her task considerably easier.

Alviarin’s ill ease lasted only a moment; a mere instant and she was all
selfpossession again, unyielding as a wall of ice. “As you wish,
Mother. I am sure they will leap to obey, as of course they should.”

A sudden flash of irritation swept Elaida like fire in dry pasture. The
fate of the world in her hands, and petty stumbling blocks kept rising
beneath her feet. Bad enough that she had rebels and recalcitrant rulers
to handle, but too many Sitters still brooded and grumbled behind her
back, fertile ground for the other woman to plow. Only six were firmly
under her own thumb, and she suspected as many at least listened closely
to Alviarin before they voted. Certainly nothing of importance passed
through the Hall unless Alviarin agreed to it. Not open agreement, not
with any acknowledgment that Alviarin bore a shred more influence or
power than a Keeper should, but if Alviarin opposed…. At least they had
not gone so far as to reject anything Elaida sent them. They simply
dragged their feet and too often let what she wanted starve on the
floor. A pitifully small thing for which to be happy. Some Amyrlins had
become little more than puppets once the Hall acquired a taste for
rejecting what they put forward.

Her hands clenched, and a tiny crackle came from the strip of paper.


The ring has been placed in the bull’s nose.


Alviarin looked as composed as a marble statue, but Elaida no longer
cared. The shepherd was on his way to her. The rebels would be crushed
and the Hall cowed, Alviarin forced to her knees and every fractious
ruler brought to heel, from Tenobia of Saldaea, who had gone into hiding
to avoid her emissary, to Mattin Stepaneos of Illian, who was trying to
play all sides at once again, trying to agree with her and the
Whitecloaks, and with al’Thor for all she knew. Elayne would be placed
on the throne in Caemlyn, without her brother to get in the way and with
a full knowledge of who had set her there. A little time back in the
Tower would make the girl damp clay in Elaida’s hands.

“I want those men rooted out, Alviarin.” There was no need to say who
she meant; half the Tower could talk of nothing but those men in their
Black Tower, and the other half whispered about them in corners.

“There are disturbing reports, Mother.” Alviarin looked through her
papers once more, but Elaida thought it was only for something to do.
She did not pluck out any more pages, and if nothing else disturbed the
woman for long, this unholy midden outside Caemlyn must.

“More rumors? Do you believe the tales of thousands flocking to
Caemlyn in answer to that obscene amnesty?” Not the least of what
al’Thor had done, but hardly cause for worry. Just a pile of filth that
must be safely cleared before Elayne was crowned in Caemlyn.

“Of course not, Mother, but—”

“Toveine is to lead; this task belongs properly to the Red.” Toveine
Gazal had been fifteen years away from the Tower, until Elaida summoned
her back. The other two Red Sitters who had resigned and gone into a
“voluntary” retreat at the same time were nervouseyed women now, but
unlike Lirene and Tsutama, Toveine had only hardened in her solitary
exile. “She is to have fifty sisters.” There could not be more than two
or three men at this Black Tower actually able to channel, Elaida was
certain. Fifty sisters could overwhelm them easily. Yet there might be
others to deal with. Hangerson, camp followers, fools full of futile
hopes and insane ambitions. “And she is to take a hundred—no, two
hundred—of the Guard.”

“Are you certain that is wise? The rumors of thousands are certainly
madness, but a Green agent in Caemlyn claims there are over four hundred
in this Black Tower. A clever fellow. It seems he counted the supply
carts that go out from the city. And you are aware of the rumors Mazrim
Taim is with them.”

Elaida fought to keep her features smooth, and barely succeeded. She had
forbidden mention of Taim’s name, and it was bitter that she did not
dare—did not dare!—impose the penalty on Alviarin. The woman looked her
straight in the eyes; the absence of so much as a perfunctory “Mother”
this time was marked. And the temerity of asking whether her actions
were wise! She was the Amyrlin Seat! Not first among equals; the
Amyrlin Seat!

Opening the largest of the lacquered boxes revealed carved ivory
miniatures laid out on gray velvet. Often just handling her collection
soothed her, but more, like the knitting she enjoyed, it let whoever was
attending her know their place, if she seemed to give more attention to
the miniatures than to what they had to say. Fingering first an
exquisite cat, sleek and flowing, then an elaborately robed woman with a
peculiar little animal, some fantasy of the carver, almost like a man
covered in hair, crouched on her shoulder, at length Elaida chose out a
curving fish, so delicately carved that it seemed nearly real despite
the aged yellow of the ivory.

“Four hundred rabble, Alviarin.” She felt calmer already, for Alviarin’s
mouth had thinned. Just a fraction, but she savored any crack in the
woman’s façade. “If there are that many. Only a fool could believe that
more than one or two can channel. At most! In ten years, we have found
only six men with the ability. Just twentyfour in the last twenty
years. And you know how the land has been scoured. As for Taim….” The
name burned her mouth; the only false Dragon ever to escape being
gentled once in the hands of Aes Sedai. Not a thing she wanted in the
Chronicles under her reign, certainly not until she decided how it
should be recorded. At present the Chronicles told nothing after his
capture.

She stroked her thumb along the fish’s scales. “He is dead, Alviarin,
else we would have heard from him long since. And not serving al’Thor.
Can you think he went from claiming to be the Dragon Reborn to serving
the Dragon Reborn? Can you think he could be in Caemlyn without Davram
Bashere at least trying to kill him?” Her thumb moved faster on the
ivory fish as she reminded herself that the MarshalGeneral of Saldaea
was in Caemlyn taking orders from al’Thor. What was Tenobia playing
at? Elaida held it all inside, though, presenting a face as calm as one
of her carvings.

“Twentyfour is a dangerous number to speak aloud,” Alviarin said with
an ominous quiet, “as dangerous as two thousand. The Chronicles record
only sixteen. The last thing needed now is for those years to rear up
again. Or for sisters who know only what they were told to learn the
truth. Even those you brought back hold their silence.”

Elaida put on a bemused look. So far as she knew, Alviarin had learned
the truth of those years only on being raised Keeper, but her own
knowledge was more personal. Not that Alviarin could be aware of that.
Not for certain, anyway. “Daughter, whatever comes out, I have no fear.
Who is going to impose a penance on me, and on what charge?” That
skirted truth nicely, but apparently it impressed the other woman not at
all.

“The Chronicles record a number of Amyrlins who took on public penance
for some usually obscure reason, but it has always seemed to me that is
how an Amyrlin might have it written if she found herself with no choice
except—”

Elaida’s hand slapped hand down on the table. “Enough, daughter! I am
Tower law! What has been hidden will remain hidden, for the same reason
it has for twenty years—the good of the White Tower.” Only then did she
feel the bruise beginning on her palm; she lifted her hand to reveal the
fish, broken in two. How old had it been? Five hundred years? A
thousand? It was all she could do not to quiver with rage. Her voice
certainly thickened with it. “Toveine is to lead fifty sisters and two
hundred of the Tower Guards to Caemlyn, to this Black Tower, where they
will gentle any man they find able to channel and hang him, along with
as many others as they can take alive.” Alviarin did not even blink at
the violation of Tower law. Elaida had spoken the truth as she meant it
to be; with this, with everything, she was Tower law. “For that
matter, hang up the dead as well. Let them be a warning to any man who
thinks of touching the True Source. Have Toveine attend me. I will want
to hear her plan.”

“It will be as you command, Mother.” The woman’s reply was as cool and
smooth as her face. “Though if I may suggest, you might wish to
reconsider sending so many sisters away from the Tower. Apparently the
rebels found your offer wanting. They are no longer in Salidar. They are
on the march. The reports come from Altara, but they must be into
Murandy by now. And they have chosen themselves an Amyrlin.” She scanned
the top sheet of her sheaf of papers as if searching for the name.
“Egwene al’Vere, it seems.”

That Alviarin had left this, the most important piece of news, until
now, should have made Elaida explode in fury. Instead, she threw back
her head and laughed. Only a firm hold on dignity kept her from drumming
her heels on the floor. The surprise on Alviarin’s face made her laugh
harder, till she had to wipe her eyes with her fingers.

“You do not see it,” she said when she could speak between ripples of
mirth. “As well you are Keeper, Alviarin, not a Sitter. In the Hall,
blind as you are, within a month the others would be holding you in a
cabinet and taking you out when they needed your vote.”

“I see enough, Mother.” Alviarin’s voice held no heat; if anything, it
should have coated the walls with frost. “I see three hundred rebel Aes
Sedai, perhaps more, marching on Tar Valon with an army led by Gareth
Bryne, acknowledged a great captain. Discounting the more ridiculous
reports, that army may number over twenty thousand, and with Bryne to
lead they will gain more at every village and town they pass. I do not
say they have hope of taking the city, of course, but it is hardly a
matter for laughter. High Captain Chubain should be ordered to increase
recruiting for the Tower Guard.”

Elaida’s gaze fell sourly on the broken fish, and she stood and stalked
to the nearest window, her back to Alviarin. The palace under
construction took away the bitter taste, that and the slip of paper she
still clutched.

She smiled down on her palacetobe. “Three hundred rebels, yes, but you
should read Tarna’s account again. At least a hundred are on the point
of breaking already.” She trusted Tarna to some extent, a Red with no
room in her head for nonsense, and she said the rebels were ready to
jump at shadows. Quietly desperate sheep looking for a shepherd, she
said. A wilder, of course, yet still sensible. Tarna should be back
soon, and able to give a fuller report. Not that it was needed. Elaida’s
plans were already working among the rebels. But that was her secret.

“Tarna has always been sure she could make people do what it was clear
they would not.” Had there been an emphasis in that, a significance of
tone? Elaida decided to ignore it. She had to ignore too much from
Alviarin, but the day would come. Soon.

“As for their army, daughter, she says two or three thousand men at
most. If they had more, they would have made sure she saw them, to
overawe us.” In Elaida’s opinion, eyesandears always exaggerated, to
make their information seem more valuable. Only sisters could be truly
trusted. Red sisters, anyway. Some of them. “But I would not care if
they did have twenty thousand, or fifty, or a hundred. Can you even
begin to guess why?” When she turned, Alviarin’s face was all smooth
composure, a mask over blind ignorance. “You seem to be conversant with
all the aspects of Tower law. What penalty do rebels face?”

“For the leaders,” Alviarin said slowly, “stilling.” She frowned
slightly, skirts swaying just barely as her feet shifted. Good. Even
Accepted knew this, and she could not understand why Elaida asked. Very
good. “For many of the rest, too.”

“Perhaps.” The leaders might themselves escape that, most of them, if
they submitted properly. The minimum penalty in law was to be birched in
the Grand Hall before the assembled sisters, followed by at least a year
and a day in public penance. Yet nothing said the penance must be served
all at once; a month here, a month there, and they would still be
atoning their crimes ten years from now, constant reminders of what came
of resisting her. Some would be stilled, of course—Sheriam, a few of the
more prominent socalled Sitters—but only sufficient to make the rest
fear putting a foot wrong again, not enough to weaken the Tower. The
White Tower had to be whole, and it had to be strong. Strong, and firmly
in her grasp.

“Only one crime among those they have committed demands stilling.”
Alviarin opened her mouth. There had been ancient rebellions, buried so
deep that few among the sisters knew; the Chronicles stood mute, the
lists of stilled and executed confined to records open only to Amyrlin,
Keeper and Sitters, aside from the few librarians who kept them. Elaida
allowed Alviarin no opportunity to speak. “Any woman who falsely claims
the title of Amyrlin Seat must be stilled. If they believed they had
any chance of success, Sheriam would be their Amyrlin, or Lelaine, or
Carlinya, or one of the others.” Tarna reported that Romanda Cassin had
come out of her retirement; Romanda surely would have seized the stole
with both hands if she saw the tenth part of a chance. “Instead, they
have plucked out an Accepted!”

Elaida shook her head in wry amusement. She could quote every word of
the law setting out how a woman was chosen Amyrlin—she had made good use
of it herself, after all—and never once did it require that the woman be
a full sister. Obviously she must be, so those who framed the law
never stated it, and the rebels had squirmed through that crack. “They
know their cause is hopeless, Alviarin. They plan to strut and bluster,
try to dig out some protection against penalty for themselves, then
yield the girl as a sacrifice.” Which was a pity. The al’Vere girl was
another possible handle on al’Thor, and when she reached her full
strength in the One Power, she would have been one of the strongest in a
thousand years or more. A true pity.

“Gareth Bryne and an army hardly sound like strutting to me. It will
take their army five or six months to reach Tar Valon. In that time,
High Captain Chubain could increase the Guard—”

“Their army,” Elaida sneered. Alviarin was such a fool; for all her
cool exterior, she was a rabbit. Next she would be spouting the Sanche
woman’s nonsense about the Forsaken being loose. Of course, she did not
know the secret, but just the same…. “Farmers carrying pikes, butchers
with bows and tailors on horseback! And every step of the way, thinking
of the Shining Walls, that held Artur Hawkwing at bay.” No, not a
rabbit. A weasel. Yet soon or late, she would be weaselfur trim on
Elaida’s cloak. The Light send it soon. “Every step of the way, they
will lose a man, if not ten. I would not be surprised if our rebels
appear with nothing more than their Warders.” Too many people knew of
the division in the Tower. Once the rebellion was broken, of course, it
could be made to seem all a ploy, a part of gaining control of young
al’Thor perhaps. An effort of years, that, and generations before
memories faded. Every last rebel would pay for that on her knees.

Elaida clenched her fist as though she held all the rebels by the
throat. Or Alviarin. “I mean to break them, daughter. They will split
open like a rotten melon.” Her secret assured that, however many farmers
and tailors Lord Bryne hung on to, but let the other woman think as she
would. Suddenly the Foretelling took hold of her, a certainty about
things she could not see stronger than if they had been laid out before
her. She would have been willing to step blindly over a cliff on that
certainty. “The White Tower will be whole again, except for remnants
cast out and scorned, whole and stronger than ever. Rand al’Thor will
face the Amyrlin Seat and know her anger. The Black Tower will be rent
in blood and fire, and sisters will walk its grounds. This I Foretell.”

As usual, the Foretelling left her trembling, gasping for breath. She
forced herself to stand still and straight, to breathe slowly; she never
let anyone see weakness. But Alviarin…. Her eyes were wide as they could
open, lips parted as if she had forgotten the words she meant to speak.
A paper slid from the sheaf in her hands and almost fell before she
could catch it. That recalled her to herself. In a flash she regained
her serene mask, a perfect picture of Aes Sedai calm, but she definitely
had been jolted to her heels. Oh, very good. Let her chew on the certain
surety of Elaida’s victory. Chew and break her teeth.

Elaida drew a deep breath and seated herself behind her writing table
again, putting the broken ivory fish to one side where she did not have
to look at it. It was time to exploit her victory. “There is work to be
done today, daughter. The first message is to go to the Lady Caraline
Damodred….”

Elaida spun out her plans, enlarging on what Alviarin knew, revealing
some that she did not, because at the last an Amyrlin did have to work
through her Keeper, however much she hated the woman. There was a
pleasure in watching Alviarin’s eyes, watching her wonder what else she
still did not know. But while Elaida ordered, divided and assigned the
world between the Aryth Ocean and the Spine of the World, in her mind
frolicked the image of young al’Thor on his way to her like a caged
bear, to be taught to dance for his dinner.

The Chronicles could hardly record the years of the Last Battle without
mentioning the Dragon Reborn, but she knew that one name would be
written larger than all others. Elaida do Avriny a’Roihan, youngest
daughter of a minor House in the north of Murandy, would go down in
history as the greatest and most powerful Amyrlin Seat of all time. The
most powerful woman in the history of the world. The woman who saved
humankind.



The Aiel standing in a deep fold in the low, browngrass hills seemed
carved figures, ignoring sheets of dust sweeping ahead of a gusting
wind. That snow should have been deep on the ground this time of year
did not bother them; none had ever seen snow, and this oven heat, with
the sun still well short of its peak, was less than where they came
from. Their attention remained fixed on the southern rise, waiting for
the signal that would announce the arrival of the destiny of the Shaido
Aiel.

Outwardly, Sevanna looked like the others, though a ring of Maidens
marked her out, resting easily on their heels, dark veils already hiding
their faces to the eyes. She also waited, and more impatiently than she
let on, but not to the exclusion of everything else. That was one reason
why she commanded and the rest followed. The second was that she saw
what could be if you refused to let outworn custom and stale tradition
tie your hands.

A slight flicker of her green eyes to the left showed twelve men and one
woman, each with round bullhide buckler and three or four short spears,
garbed in grayandbrown cadin’sor that blended as well with the
terrain here as in the Threefold Land. Efalin, short graying hair
hidden by the shoufa wrapped around her head, sometimes glanced
Sevanna’s way; if a Maiden of the Spear could be said to be uneasy,
Efalin was. Some Shaido Maidens had gone south, joining the fools
capering around Rand al’Thor, and Sevanna did not doubt others talked of
it. Efalin must be wondering whether providing Sevanna with an escort of
Maidens, as if she had been Far Dareis Mai once herself, was enough to
balance that. At least Efalin had no doubts where true power lay.

Like Efalin, the men led Shaido warrior societies, and they eyed one
another between watching the rise. Especially blocky Maeric, who was
Seia Doon, and scarfaced Bendhuin, of Far Aldazar Din. After today,
no longer would anything hold back the Shaido from sending a man to
Rhuidean, to be marked as the clan chief if he survived. Until that
happened, Sevanna spoke as the clan chief since she was the widow of the
last chief. Of the last two chiefs. And let those who muttered that she
carried bad luck choke on it.

Gold and ivory bracelets clattered softly as she straightened the dark
shawl over her arms and adjusted her necklaces. Most of those were gold
and ivory too, but one was a mass of pearls and rubies that had belonged
to a wetlander noblewoman—the woman now wore white and hauled and
fetched alongside the other gai’shain back in the mountains called
Kinslayer’s Dagger—with a ruby the size of a small hen’s egg nestled
between her breasts. The wetlands held rich prizes. A large emerald on
her finger caught sunlight in green fire; finger rings were one
wetlander custom worth adopting, no matter the stares often aimed at
hers. She would have more, if they matched this one for magnificence.

Most of the men thought Maeric or Bendhuin would be first to receive the
Wise Ones’ permission to try Rhuidean. Only Efalin in that group
suspected that none would, and she only suspected; she also was astute
enough to voice her suspicions circumspectly to Sevanna and not at all
to anyone else. Their minds could not encompass the possibility of
shedding the old, and in truth, if Sevanna was impatient to don the new,
she was also aware that she must bring them to it slowly. Much had
changed already in the old ways since the Shaido crossed the Dragonwall
into the wetlands—still wet, compared to the Threefold Land—yet more
would change. Once Rand al’Thor was in her hands, once she had wed the
Car’a’carn, the chief of chiefs of all the Aiel—this nonsense of the
Dragon Reborn was wetlander foolishness—there would be a new way of
naming clan chiefs, and sept chiefs as well. Perhaps even the heads of
the warrior societies. Rand al’Thor would name them. Pointing where she
told him, of course. And that would be only the beginning. The wetlander
notion of handing down rank to your children, and their children, for
instance.

The wind swept higher for a moment, blowing south. It would cover the
sound of the wetlanders’ horses and wagons.

She shifted her shawl again, then suppressed a grimace. At all costs she
must not appear nervous. A glance to the right stilled worry as soon as
begun. Over two hundred Shaido Wise Ones clustered there, and normally
at least some would be watching her like vultures, but their eyes were
all on the rise. More than one adjusted her shawl uneasily or smoothed
bulky skirts. Sevanna’s lip curled. Sweat beaded on some of those faces.
Sweat! Where was their honor that they showed nerves before every gaze?

Everyone stiffened slightly as a young Sovin Nai appeared above them,
lowering his veil as he scrambled down. He came straight to her, as was
proper, but to her irritation he raised his voice enough for all to
hear. “One of their forward scouts escaped. He was wounded, but still on
his horse.”

The society leaders began to move before he finished speaking. That
would never do. They would lead in the actual fighting—Sevanna had never
more than held a spear in her life—but she would not let them forget for
a moment who she was. “Throw every last spear against them,” she ordered
loudly, “before they can ready themselves.” They rounded on her as one.

“Every spear?” Bendhuin demanded incredulously. “You mean except for the
screens—”

Glowering, Maeric spoke right on top of him. “If we keep no reserve, we
can be—”

Sevanna cut them both off. “Every spear! These are Aes Sedai we dance
with. We must overwhelm them immediately!” Efalin and most of the others
schooled their faces to stillness, but Bendhuin and Maeric frowned,
ready to argue. Fools. They faced a few dozen Aes Sedai, a few hundred
wetlander soldiers, yet with the more than forty thousand
algai’d’siswai they had insisted on, they still wanted their screens
of scouts and their spears in reserve as if they faced other Aiel or a
wetlander army. “I speak as the clan chief of the Shaido.” She should
not have to say that, but a reminder could do no harm. “They are a
handful.” She weighted every word with contempt now. “They can be run
down if the spears move quickly. You were ready to avenge Desaine this
sunrise. Do I smell fear now? Fear of a few wetlanders? Has honor gone
from the Shaido?”

That turned their faces to stone, as intended. Even Efalin showed eyes
like polished gray gems as she veiled; her fingers moved in Maiden
handtalk, and as the society leaders sprinted up the rise, the Maidens
around Sevanna followed. That was not what she had intended, but at
least the spears were moving. Even from the bottom of the fold she could
see what had seemed bare ground disgorging cadin’sorclad figures, all
hurrying south with the long strides that could run down horses. There
was no time to waste. With a thought to have words with Efalin later,
Sevanna turned to the Wise Ones.

Chosen from the strongest of the Shaido Wise Ones who could wield the
One Power, they were six or seven for every Aes Sedai around Rand
al’Thor, yet Sevanna saw doubt. They tried to hide it behind stony
faces, but it was there, in shifting eyes, in tongues wetting lips. Many
traditions fell today, traditions old and strong as law. Wise Ones did
not take part in battles. Wise Ones kept far from Aes Sedai. They knew
the ancient tales, that the Aiel had been sent to the Threefold Land
for failing the Aes Sedai, that they would be destroyed if ever they
failed them again. They had heard the stories, what Rand al’Thor had
claimed before all, that as part of their service to the Aes Sedai, the
Aiel had sworn to do no violence.

Once Sevanna had been sure those stories were lies, but of late she
believed the Wise Ones knew them for truth. None had told her so, of
course. It did not matter. She herself had never made the two journeys
to Rhuidean required to become a Wise One, but the others had accepted
her, however reluctant some had been. Now they had no choice but to go
on accepting. Useless traditions would be carved into new.

“Aes Sedai,” she said softly. They leaned toward her in a muted clatter
of bracelets and necklaces, to catch her low words. “They hold Rand
al’Thor, the Car’a’carn. We must take him from them.” There were
scattered frowns. Most believed she wanted the Car’a’carn taken alive
in order to avenge the death of Couladin, her second husband. They
understood that, but they would not have come here for it. “Aes Sedai,”
she hissed angrily. “We kept our pledge, but they broke theirs. We
violated nothing, but they have violated everything. You know how
Desaine was murdered.” And of course they did. The eyes watching her
were suddenly sharper. Killing a Wise One ranked with killing a pregnant
woman, a child or a blacksmith. Some of those eyes were very sharp.
Therava’s, Rhiale’s, others’. “If we allow these women to walk away from
that, then we are less than animals, we will have no honor. I hold
my honor.”

On that she gathered her skirts with dignity and climbed the slope, head
high, not looking back. She was certain the others would follow. Therava
and Norlea and Dailin would see to that, and Rhiale and Tion and Meira
and the rest who had accompanied her a few days past to see Rand al’Thor
beaten and put back into his wooden chest by the Aes Sedai. Her reminder
had been for those thirteen even more than the others, and they dared
not fail her. The truth of how Desaine had died tied them to her.

Wise Ones with their skirts looped over their arms to free their legs
could not keep up with the algai’d’siswai in cadin’sor however hard
they ran, though race they did. Five miles across those low rolling
hills, not a long run, and they topped a crest to see the dance of
spears already begun. After a fashion.

Thousands of algai’d’siswai made a huge pool of veiled grayandbrown
surging around a circle of wetlander wagons, which itself surrounded one
of the small clumps of trees that dotted this region. Sevanna drew an
angry breath. The Aes Sedai had even had time to bring all of their
horses inside. The spears encircled the wagons, pressed in on them,
showered arrows toward them, but those at the front seemed to push
against an invisible wall. At first the arrows that arched highest
passed over this wall, but then they too began striking something unseen
and bouncing back. A low murmur rose among the Wise Ones.

“You see what the Aes Sedai do?” Sevanna demanded, as though she also
could see the One Power being woven. She wanted to sneer; the Aes Sedai
were fools, with their vaunted Three Oaths. When they finally decided
they must use the Power as a weapon instead of just to make barriers, it
would be too late. Provided the Wise Ones did not stand too long
staring. Somewhere in those wagons was Rand al’Thor, perhaps still
doubled into a chest like a bolt of silk. Waiting for her to pick him
up. If the Aes Sedai could hold him, then she could, with the Wise Ones.
And a promise. “Therava, take your half to the west now. Be ready to
strike when I do. For Desaine, and the toh the Aes Sedai owe us. We
will make them meet toh as no one ever has before.”

It was a foolish boast to speak of making someone meet an obligation
they had not acknowledged, yet in the angry mutters from the other
women, Sevanna heard other furious promises to make the Aes Sedai meet
toh. Only those who had killed Desaine on Sevanna’s orders stood
silent. Therava’s narrow lips tightened slightly, but finally she said,
“It will be as you say, Sevanna.”

At an easy lope, Sevanna led her half of the Wise Ones to the east side
of the battle, if it could be called that yet. She had wanted to remain
on a rise where she could have a good view—that was how a clan chief or
battle leader directed the dance of spears—but in this one thing she
found no support even from Therava and the others who shared the secret
of Desaine’s death. The Wise Ones made a sharp contrast with the
algai’d’siswai as she lined them up in their white algode blouses
and dark wool skirts and shawls, their glittering bracelets and
necklaces and their waistlength hair held back by dark folded scarves.
For all their decision that if they were to be in the dance of the
spears, they would be in it, not on a rise apart, she did not believe
they yet realized that the true battle today was theirs to fight. After
today, nothing would be the same again, and tethering Rand al’Thor was
the smallest part.

Among the algai’d’siswai staring toward the wagons only height quickly
told men from Maidens. Veils and shoufa hid heads and faces, and
cadin’sor was cadin’sor aside from the differences of cut that
marked clan and sept and society. Those at the outer edge of the
encirclement appeared confused, grumbling among themselves as they
waited for something to happen. They had come prepared to dance with Aes
Sedai lightning, and now they milled impatiently, too far back even to
use the horn bows still in leather cases on their backs. They would not
have to wait much longer if Sevanna had her way.

Hands on hips, she addressed the other Wise Ones. “Those to the south of
me will disrupt what the Aes Sedai are doing. Those to the north will
attack. Forward the spears!” With the command, she turned to watch the
destruction of the Aes Sedai who thought they had only steel to face.

Nothing happened. In front of her the mass of algai’d’siswai seethed
uselessly, and the loudest sound was the occasional drumming of spears
on bucklers. Sevanna gathered her anger, winding it like thread from the
spinning. She had been so sure they were ready after Desaine’s butchered
corpse was displayed to them, but if they still found attacking Aes
Sedai unthinkable, she would chivvy them to it if she had to shame them
all till they demanded to put on gai’shain white.

Suddenly a ball of pure flame the size of a man’s head arched toward the
wagons, sizzling and hissing, then another, dozens. The knot in her
middle loosened. More fireballs came from the west, from Therava and the
rest. Smoke began to rise from burning wagons, first gray wisps, then
thickening black pillars; the murmurs of the algai’d’siswai changed
pitch, and if those directly in front of her moved little, there was a
sudden sense of pressing forward. Shouts drifted from the wagons, men
yelling in anger, bellowing in pain. Whatever barriers the Aes Sedai had
made were down. It had begun, and there could be only one ending. Rand
al’Thor would be hers; he would give her the Aiel, to take all of the
wetlands, and before he died he would give her daughters and sons to
lead the Aiel after her. She might enjoy that; he was quite pretty,
really, strong and young.

She did not expect the Aes Sedai to go down easily, and they did not.
Fireballs fell among the spears, turning cadin’sorclad figures to
torches, and lightnings struck from a clear sky, hurling men and earth
into the air. The Wise Ones learned from what they saw, though, or
perhaps they already knew and had hesitated before; most channeled so
seldom, especially where anyone besides Wise Ones could see, that only
another Wise One knew whether any given woman could. Whatever the
reason, no sooner did lightning begin to fall among the Shaido spears
than more struck toward the wagons.

Not all reached its target. Balls of fire streaking through the air,
some large as horses now, silver lightning stabbing toward the ground
like spears from the heavens, sometimes suddenly darted aside as if
striking an invisible shield, or erupted violently in midair, or simply
vanished altogether. Roars and crashes filled the air, warring with
shouts and screams. Sevanna stared at the sky in delight. It was like
the Illuminators’ displays she had read about.

Suddenly the world turned white in her eyes; she seemed to be floating.
When she could see again, she was flat on the ground a dozen paces from
where she had stood, aching in every muscle, struggling for breath and
covered with a scattering of dirt. Her hair wanted to lift away from
her. Other Wise Ones were down as well, around a ragged hole a span
across torn in the ground; thin tendrils of smoke rose from the dresses
of some. Not everyone had fallen—the battle of fire and lightning
continued in the sky—but too many. She had to throw them back into the
dance.

Forcing herself to breathe, she scrambled to her feet, not bothering to
brush off the dirt. “Push spears!” she shouted. Seizing Estalaine’s
angular shoulders, she started to drag the woman to her feet, then
realized from her staring blue eyes that she was dead and let her fall.
She pulled a dazed Dorailla erect instead, then seized up a spear from a
fallen Thunder Walker and waved it high. “Forward the spears!” Some of
the Wise Ones seemed to take her literally, plunging into the mass of
algai’d’siswai. Others kept their heads better, helping those who
could rise, and the storm of fire and lightning continued as she raged
up and down the line of Wise Ones, waving her spear and shouting. “Push
spears! Forward the spears!”

She felt like laughing; she did laugh. With dirt all over her and the
battle raging, she had never been so exhilarated before in her life.
Almost she wished she had chosen to become a Maiden of the Spear.
Almost. No Far Dareis Mai could ever be clan chief, any more than a
man could be a Wise One; a Maiden’s route to power was to give up the
spear and become a Wise One. As wife of a clan chief she had been
wielding power at an age when a Maiden was barely trusted to carry a
spear or a Wise One’s apprentice to fetch water. And now she had it all,
Wise One and clan chief, though it would take some doing yet to have
that last title in truth. Titles mattered little so long as she had the
power, but why should she not have both?

A sudden scream made her turn, and she gaped at the sight of a shaggy
gray wolf ripping Dosera’s throat out. Without thought she plunged her
spear into its side. Even as it twisted to snap at the spear haft,
another waisttall wolf bounded past her to hurl itself onto the back of
one of the algai’d’siswai, then another wolf, and more, tearing into
cadin’sorclad figures wherever she looked.

Superstitious fear lanced through her as she pulled her spear free. The
Aes Sedai had called wolves to fight for them. She could not take her
gaze from the wolf she had killed. The Aes Sedai had…. No. No! It could
change nothing. She would not let it.

Finally she managed to pull her eyes away, but before she could shout
encouragement to the Wise Ones again, something else stilled her tongue
and made her stare. A knot of wetlander horsemen in red helmets and
breastplates, laying about them with swords, thrusting with long lances,
in the middle of the algai’d’siswai. Where had they come from?

She did not realize she had spoken aloud until Rhiale answered her. “I
tried to tell you, Sevanna, but you would not listen.” The flamehaired
woman eyed her bloody spear distastefully; Wise Ones were not supposed
to carry spears. She ostentatiously laid the weapon in the crook of her
elbow, the way she had seen chiefs do, as Rhiale went on. “Wetlanders
have attacked from the south. Wetlanders and siswai’aman.” She imbued
the word with all the scorn proper for those would name themselves
Spears of the Dragon. “Maidens as well. And…. And there are Wise Ones.”

“Fighting?” Sevanna said incredulously before realizing how it sounded.
If she could toss out decayed custom, surely those sunblinded fools to
the south who still called themselves Aiel could as well. She had not
expected it, though. No doubt Sorilea had brought them; that old woman
reminded Sevanna of a landslide plunging down a mountain, carrying all
before it. “We must attack them at once. They will not have Rand
al’Thor. Or ruin our vengeance for Desaine,” she added when Rhiale’s
eyes widened.

“They are Wise Ones,” the other woman said in a flat tone, and Sevanna
understood bitterly. Joining the dance of spears was bad enough, but
Wise One attacking Wise One was more than even Rhiale would countenance.
She had agreed that Desaine must die—how else could the other Wise Ones,
not to mention the algai’d’siswai, be brought to attack Aes Sedai,
which they must do to put Rand al’Thor in their hands, and with him all
the Aiel?—yet that was done in secret, surrounded by likeminded women.
This would be before everyone. Fools and cowards, all of them!

“Then fight those enemies you can bring yourself to fight, Rhiale.” She
bit off every word with as much scorn as she could, but Rhiale merely
nodded, adjusted her shawl with another glance at the spear on Sevanna’s
arm and returned to her place in the line.

Perhaps there was a way to make the other Wise Ones move first. Better
to attack by surprise, but better anything than that they should snatch
Rand al’Thor from her very hands. What she would not give for a woman
who could channel and would do as she was told without balking. What she
would not give to be on a rise, where she could see how the battle went.

Keeping her spear ready and a wary eye out for wolves—those she could
see were either killing men and women in cadin’sor or were dead
themselves—she returned to shouting encouragement. To the south more
fire and lightning fell among the Shaido than before, but it made no
difference that she could tell. That battle, with its explosions of
flame and earth and people, continued unabated.

“Push spears!” she shouted, waving hers. “Push spears!” Among the
churning algai’d’siswai she could not make out any of the fools who
had tied a bit of red cloth around their temples and named themselves
siswai’aman. Perhaps they were too few to alter the course of events.
The knots of wetlanders certainly seemed few and far between. Even as
she watched, one was swarmed under, men and horses, by stabbing spears.
“Push spears! Push spears!” Exultation filled her voice. If the Aes
Sedai called ten thousand wolves, if Sorilea had brought a thousand Wise
Ones and a hundred thousand spears, the Shaido would still emerge
victorious today. The Shaido, and herself. Sevanna of the Jumai Shaido
would be a name remembered forever.

Suddenly a hollow boom sounded amid the roar of battle. It seemed to
come from the direction of the Aes Sedai wagons, but nothing told her
whether they had caused it, or the Wise Ones. She disliked things she
did not understand, yet she was not about to ask Rhiale or the others
and flaunt her ignorance. And her lack of the ability all here had, save
her. It counted for nothing among themselves, but another thing she did
not like was for others to have power she did not.

A flicker of light among the algai’d’siswai, a sense of something
turning, caught the corner of her eye, but when she turned to look,
there was nothing. Again the same thing happened, a flash of light seen
on the edge of vision, and again when she looked there was nothing to
see. Too many things she did not understand.

Shouting encouragement, she eyed the line of Shaido Wise Ones. Some
appeared bedraggled, head scarves gone and long hair hanging loose,
skirts and blouses covered with dirt or even singed. At least a dozen
lay stretched out in a row, groaning, and seven more were still, shawls
laid over their faces. It was those on their feet that interested her.
Rhiale, and Alarys with her rare black hair all awry. Someryn, who had
taken to wearing her blouse unlaced to show even more generous cleavage
than Sevanna herself, and Meira, with her long face yet more grim than
usual. Stout Tion, and skinny Belinde, and Modarra, as tall as most men.

One of them should have told her if they did something new. The secret
of Desaine bound them to her; even for a Wise One, revelation of that
would lead to a lifetime of pain—and worse, shame—trying to meet toh,
if the one revealed was not simply driven naked into the wilderness to
live or die as she could, likely to be killed like a beast by any who
found her. Even so, Sevanna was sure they took as much delight as the
rest in concealing things from her, the things that Wise Ones learned
during their apprenticeships, and in the journeys to Rhuidean. Something
would have to be done about that, but later. She would not display
weakness by asking what they did now.

Turning back to the battle, she found the balance changing, and in her
favor it appeared. To the south fireballs and lightning bolts plummeted
as heavily as ever, but not in front of her, and it seemed not to the
west or north either. What struck toward the wagons still failed to
reach the ground more often than not, yet there was a definite
slackening of the Aes Sedai’s efforts. They had been forced onto the
defensive. She was winning!

Even as the thought flushed through her like pure heat, the Aes Sedai
went silent. Only to the south did fire and lightning still fall among
the algai’d’siswai. She opened her mouth to shout victory, and another
realization silenced her. Fire and lightning stormed down toward the
wagons, stormed down and crashed against some unseen obstruction. Smoke
from burning wagons was beginning to outline the shape of a dome as it
streamed up and finally billowed from a hole in the top of the invisible
enclosure.

Sevanna whirled to confront the line of Wise Ones, her face such that
several flinched back from her, and maybe from the spear in her hand.
She knew she looked ready to use it; she was ready. “Why have you let
them do this?” she raged. “Why? You were to obstruct whatever they did,
not allow them to make more walls!”

Tion looked ready to empty her stomach, but she planted her fists on
broad hips and faced Sevanna directly. “It was not the Aes Sedai.”

“Not the Aes Sedai?” Sevanna spat. “Then who? The other Wise Ones? I
told you we must attack them!”

“It was not women,” Rhiale said, her voice faltering. “It was not—” Face
pale, she swallowed.

Sevanna turned slowly to stare at the dome, only then remembering to
breathe again. Something had risen through the hole where the smoke
gushed out. One of the wetlander banners. The smoke was not enough to
obscure it completely. Crimson, with a disc half white and half black,
the colors divided by a sinuous line, just like the piece of cloth the
siswai’aman wore. Rand al’Thor’s banner. Could he possibly be strong
enough to have broken free, overwhelmed all the Aes Sedai and raised
that? It had to be.

The storm still battered at the dome, but Sevanna heard murmurs behind
her. The other women were thinking of retreat. Not her. She had always
known that the easiest path to power lay through conquering men who
already possessed it, and even as a child she was sure she had been born
with the weapons to conquer them. Suladric, clan chief of the Shaido,
fell to her at sixteen, and when he died, she chose out those most
likely to succeed. Muradin and Couladin each believed he alone had
captured her interest, and when Muradin failed to return from Rhuidean,
as so many men did, one smile convinced Couladin that he had overwhelmed
her. But the power of a clan chief paled beside that of the
Car’a’carn, and even that was nothing beside what she saw before her.
She shivered as if she had just seen the most beautiful man imaginable
in the sweat tent. When Rand al’Thor was hers, she would conquer the
whole world.

“Press harder,” she commanded. “Harder! We will humble these Aes Sedai
for Desaine!” And she would have Rand al’Thor.

Abruptly there was a roar from the front of the battle, men shouting,
screaming. She cursed that she could not see what was happening. Again
she shouted for the Wise Ones to press harder, but if anything, it
seemed the fall of flame and lightning against the dome lessened. And
then there was something she could see.

Close to the wagons, cadin’sorclad figures and earth erupted into the
air with a thunderous crash, not in one place, but in a long line. Again
the ground exploded, and again, again, each time a little farther from
the encircled wagons. Not a line, but a solid ring of exploding ground
and men and Maidens that she had no doubt ran all the way around the
wagons. Again and again and again, ever expanding, and suddenly
algai’d’siswai were pushing past her, buffeting through the line of
Wise Ones, running.

Sevanna beat at them with her spear, flailing at heads and shoulders,
not caring when the spearhead came away redder then before. “Stand and
fight! Stand, for the honor of the Shaido!” They rushed by unheeding.
“Have you no honor! Stand and fight!” She stabbed a fleeing Maiden in
the back, but the rest just trampled over the fallen woman. Abruptly she
realized that some of the Wise Ones were gone, and others picking up the
injured. Rhiale turned to run, and Sevanna seized the taller woman’s
arm, threatening her with the spear. She did not care that Rhiale could
channel. “We must stand! We can still have him!”

The other woman’s face was a mask of fear. “If we stand, we die! Or else
we end chained outside Rand al’Thor’s tent! Stay and die if you wish,
Sevanna. I am no Stone Dog!” Ripping her arm free, she sped eastward.

For a moment more, Sevanna stood there, letting the men and Maidens push
her this way and that as they streamed by in panic. Then she tossed down
the spear and felt her belt pouch, where a small cube of intricately
carved stone lay. Well that she had hesitated over throwing that away.
She had another cord for her bow yet. Gathering her skirts to bare her
legs, she joined in the chaotic flight, but if all the rest fled in
terror, she ran with plans whirling through her head. She would have
Rand al’Thor on his knees before her, and the Aes Sedai as well.



Alviarin finally left Elaida’s apartments, as cool and collected as ever
on the surface. Inside, she felt wrung out like a damp cloth. She
managed to keep her legs steady down the long curving flights of stairs,
marble even in the very heights. Liveried servants bowed and curtsied as
they scurried about their tasks, seeing only the Keeper in all her Aes
Sedai serenity. As she went lower, sisters began to appear, many wearing
their shawls, fringed in the colors of their Ajahs, as if to emphasize
by formality that they were full sisters. They eyed her as she passed,
uneasy often as not. The only one to ignore her was Danelle, a dreamy
Brown sister. She had been part of bringing down Siuan Sanche and
raising Elaida, but lost in her own thoughts, a solitary with no friends
even in her own Ajah, she seemed unaware that she had been shoved aside.
Others were all too aware. Berisha, a lean and hardeyed Gray, and Kera,
with the fair hair and blue eyes that appeared occasionally among
Tairens and all the arrogance so common to Greens, went so far as to
curtsy. Norine made as if to, then did not; bigeyed and nearly as
dreamy as Danelle at times, and as friendless, she resented Alviarin; if
the Keeper came from the White, in her eyes it should have been Norine
Dovarna.

The courtesy was not required toward the Keeper, not from a sister, but
no doubt they hoped she might intercede with Elaida should that become
necessary. The others merely wondered what commands she carried, whether
another sister was to be singled out today for some failure in the
Amyrlin’s eyes. Not even Reds went within five levels of the Amyrlin’s
new apartments unless summoned, and more than one sister actually hid
when Elaida came below. The very air seemed heated, thick with a fear
that had nothing to do with rebels or men channeling.

Several sisters tried to speak, but Alviarin brushed past, barely
polite, hardly noticing worry bloom in their eyes when she refused to
pause. Elaida filled her mind as much as theirs. A woman of many layers,
Elaida. The first look at her showed a beautiful woman filled with
dignified reserve, the second a woman of steel, stern as a bared blade.
She overwhelmed where others persuaded, bludgeoned where others tried
diplomacy or the Game of Houses. Anyone who knew her saw her
intelligence, but only after a time did you realize that for all her
brains, she saw what she wanted to see, would try to make true what she
wanted to be true. Of the two indisputably frightening things about her,
the lesser was that she so often succeeded. The greater was her Talent
for Foretelling.

So easy to forget that, erratic and infrequent; it had been so long
since the last Foretelling that the very unpredictability made it Strike
like a thunderbolt. No one could say when it would come, not even
Elaida, and no one could say what it would reveal. Now Alviarin almost
felt the woman’s shadowy presence following and watching.

It might be necessary to kill her yet. If so, Elaida would not be the
first she had killed in secret. Still, she hesitated to take that step
without orders, or at least permission.

She entered her own apartments with a sense of relief, as though
Elaida’s shade could not cross the threshold. A foolish thought. If
Elaida had a suspicion of the truth, a thousand leagues would not keep
her from Alviarin’s throat. Elaida would expect her to be hard at work,
personally penning orders for the Amyrlin’s signature and seal—but which
of those orders were actually to be carried out had yet to be decided.
Not by Elaida, of course. Nor by herself.

The rooms were smaller than those Elaida occupied, though the ceilings
reached higher, and a balcony looked over the great square in front of
the Tower from a hundred feet up. Sometimes she went out on the balcony
to see Tar Valon spread out before her, the greatest city in the world,
filled with countless thousands who were less than pieces on a stone’s
board. The furnishings were Domani, pale striped wood inlaid with
pearlshell and amber, bright carpets in patterns of flowers and scrolls,
brighter tapestries of forest and flowers and grazing deer. They had
belonged to the last occupant of these rooms, and if she retained them
for any reason beyond not wanting to waste time choosing new, it was to
remind herself of the price of failure. Leane Sharif had dabbled in
schemes and failed, and now she was cut off from the One Power forever,
a helpless refugee dependent on charity, doomed to a life of misery
until she either ended it or simply put her face to the wall and died.
Alviarin had heard of a few stilled women who managed to survive, but
she would doubt those stories until she met one. Not that she had the
slightest desire to do so.

Through the windows she could see the brightness of early afternoon, yet
before she was halfway across her sitting room, the light suddenly faded
into dim evening. The darkness did not surprise her. She turned and went
to her knees immediately. “Great Mistress, I live to serve.” A tall
woman of dark shadow and silver light stood before her. Mesaana.

“Tell me what happened, child.” The voice was crystal chimes.

On her knees, Alviarin repeated every word that Elaida had said, though
she wondered why it was necessary. In the beginning she had left out
unimportant bits, and Mesaana knew every time, demanded every word,
every gesture and facial expression. Plainly she eavesdropped on those
meetings. Alviarin had tried to work out the logic of it and failed.
Some things did work to logic, though.

She had met others of the Chosen, whom fools called the Forsaken.
Lanfear had come within the Tower, and Graendal, imperious in their
strength and knowledge, making it clear without words that Alviarin was
far beneath them, a scullery maid to run errands and wriggle with
pleasure if she received a kind word. Be’lal had snatched Alviarin away
in the night while she slept—to where she still did not know; she had
wakened back in her own bed, and that had terrified her even more than
being in the presence of a man who could channel. To him she was not
even a worm, not even a living thing, just a piece in a game, to move at
his command. First had been Ishamael, years before the others, plucking
her out of the hidden mass of the Black Ajah to place her at its head.

To each she had knelt, saying that she lived to serve and meaning it,
obeying as they commanded, whatever the command. After all, they stood
only a step below the Great Lord of the Dark himself, and if she wanted
the rewards of her service, the immortality it seemed they already
possessed, it was well to obey. To each she knelt, and only Mesaana had
appeared with an inhuman face. This cloak of shadow and light must be
woven with the One Power, but Alviarin could see no weave. She had felt
the strength of Lanfear and Graendal, had known from the first instant
how much stronger in the Power they were than she, but in Mesaana she
sensed … nothing. As if the woman could not channel at all.

The logic was clear, and stunning. Mesaana hid herself because she might
be recognized. She must reside in the Tower itself. On the face of it,
that seemed impossible, yet nothing else fit. Given that, she must be
one of the sisters; surely she was not among servants, bound to labor
and sweat. But who? Too many women had been out of the Tower for years
before Elaida’s summons, too many had no close friends, or none at all.
Mesaana must be one of those. Alviarin very much wanted to know. Even if
she could make no use of it, knowledge was power.

“So our Elaida has had a Foretelling,” Mesaana chimed, and Alviarin
realized with a start that she had reached the end of her recital. Her
knees hurt, but she knew better than to rise without permission. A
finger of shadow tapped silver lips thoughtfully. Had she seen any
sister make that gesture? “Strange that she should be so clear and so
erratic at the same time. It was always a rare Talent, and most who had
it spoke so only poets could understand. Usually until it was too late
to matter, at least. Everything always became clear then.” Alviarin kept
silent. None of the Chosen conversed; they commanded or demanded.
“Interesting predictions. The rebels breaking—like a rotten melon?—was
that part of it?”

“I am not certain, Great Mistress,” she said slowly—had it been?—but
Mesaana only shrugged.

“Either it is or it is not, and either way can be used.”

“She is dangerous, Great Mistress. Her Talent could reveal what should
not be revealed.”

Crystalline laughter answered her. “Such as? You? Your Black Ajah
sisters? Or perhaps you think to safeguard me? You are a good girl
sometimes, child.” That silvery voice was amused. Alviarin felt her face
heat and hoped that Mesaana read the shame, not the anger. “Do you
suggest that our Elaida should be disposed of, child? Not yet, I think.
She has her uses still. At least until young al’Thor reaches us, and
very likely after. Write out her orders and see to them. Watching her
play her little games is certainly amusing. You children almost match
the ajah at times. Will she succeed in having the King of Illian and
the Queen of Saldaea kidnapped? You Aes Sedai used to do that, didn’t
you, but not for—what?—two thousand years? Who will she try to put on
the throne of Cairhien? Will the offer of being king in Tear overcome
the High Lord Darlin’s dislike of Aes Sedai? Will our Elaida choke on
her own frustration first? A pity she resists the idea of a larger army.
I’d have thought her ambitions would leap at that.”

The interview was coming to a close—they never lasted longer than for
Alviarin to report and be given her own orders—but she had a question
yet to ask. “The Black Tower, Great Mistress.” Alviarin wet her lips.
She had learned much since Ishamael appeared to her, not least that the
Chosen were neither omnipotent nor allknowing. She had risen because
Ishamael killed her predecessor in his wrath at discovering what Jarna
Malari had begun, yet it had not ended for another two years, after the
death of another Amyrlin. She often wondered whether Elaida had had any
hand in the death of that one, Sierin Vayu; certainly the Black Ajah had
not. Jarna had had Tamra Ospenya, the Amyrlin before Sierin, squeezed
like a bunch of grapes—obtaining little juice, as it turned out—and made
her appear to have died in her sleep, but Alviarin and the other twelve
sisters of the Great Council had paid in pain before they could convince
Ishamael they had no responsibility for it. The Chosen were not
allpowerful, and they did not know everything, yet sometimes they knew
what no one else did. Asking could be dangerous, though. “Why” was the
most dangerous; the Chosen never liked to be asked why. “Is it safe to
send fifty sisters to deal with them, Great Mistress?”

Eyes glowing like twin full moons regarded her in silence, and a chill
slid up Alviarin’s spine. Jarna’s fate flashed into her mind. Publicly
Gray, Jarna had never shown any interest in the ter’angreal no one
knew a use for—until the day she became snared in one untried for
centuries. How to activate it remained a mystery still. For ten days no
one could reach her, only listen to her throatwrenching shrieks. Most
of the Tower thought Jarna a model of virtue; when what could be
recovered was buried, every sister in Tar Valon and every one who could
reach the city in time attended the funeral.

“You have curiosity, child,” Mesaana said finally. “That can be an
asset, properly directed. Wrongly directed….” The threat hung in the air
like a gleaming dagger.

“I will direct it as you command, Great Mistress,” Alviarin breathed
hoarsely. Her mouth was dry as dust. “Only as you command.” But she
would still see that no Black sisters went with Toveine. Mesaana moved,
looming over her so she had to crane her neck to look up at that face of
light and shadow, and suddenly she wondered whether the Chosen knew her
thoughts.

“If you would serve me, child, then you must serve and obey me. Not
Semirhage or Demandred. Not Graendal or anyone else. Only me. And the
Great Lord, of course, but me above all save him.”

“I live to serve you, Great Mistress.” That came out in a croak, but she
managed to emphasize the added word.

For a long moment silvery eyes stared down at her unblinking. Then
Mesaana said, “Good. I will teach you, then. But remember that a pupil
is not a teacher. I choose who learns what, and I decide when they can
make use of it. Should I find you have passed on the smallest scrap or
used even a hair of it without my direction, I will extinguish you.”

Alviarin worked moisture back into her mouth. There was no anger in
those chimes, only certainty. “I live to serve you, Great Mistress. I
live to obey you, Great Mistress.” She had just learned something about
the Chosen that she could hardly credit. Knowledge was power.

“You have a little strength, child. Not much, but enough.”

A weave appeared seemingly from nowhere.

“This,” Mesaana chimed, “is called a gateway.”



Pedron Niall grunted as Morgase placed a white stone on the board with a
smile of triumph. Lesser players might set two dozen more stones each
yet, but he could see the inevitable course now, and so could she. In
the beginning the goldenhaired woman seated on the other side of the
small table had played to lose, to make the game close enough to be
interesting for him, but it had not taken her long to learn that that
led to obliteration. Not to mention that he was clever enough to see
through the subterfuge and would not tolerate it. Now she plied all her
skill and managed to win nearly half their games. No one had beaten him
so often in a good many years.

“The game is yours,” he told her, and the Queen of Andor nodded. Well,
she would be Queen again; he would see to that. In green silk, with a
high lace collar brushing her chin, she looked every inch a queen
despite the sheen of perspiration on her smooth cheeks. She hardly
appeared old enough to have a daughter Elayne’s age, though, much less a
son Gawyn’s.

“You did not realize I saw the trap you were laying from your
thirtyfirst stone, Lord Niall, and you took my feint from the
fortythird stone to be my real attack.” Excitement sparkled in her blue
eyes; Morgase liked to win. She liked playing to win.

It was all meant to lull him, of course, the playing at stones, the
politeness. Morgase knew she was a prisoner in the Fortress of the Light
in all but name, albeit a luxuriously pampered prisoner. And a secret
one. He had allowed stories of her presence to spread, but issued no
proclamations. Andor had too strong a history of opposing the Children
of the Light. He would announce nothing until legions moved into Andor,
with her their figurehead. Morgase certainly knew that, as well. Very
probably she also knew he was aware of her attempts to soften him. The
treaty she had signed gave the Children rights in Andor they had never
possessed anywhere except here in Amadicia, and he expected that she
already planned how to lighten his hand on her land, how to remove his
hand altogether as soon as she could. She had only signed because he
backed her into a corner, yet confined in that corner, she fought on as
skillfully as she maneuvered on a stones board. For one so beautiful,
she was a tough woman. No, she was tough, and that was that. She did let
herself be caught up in the pure pleasure of the game, but he could not
count that a fault when it gave him so many pleasant moments.

Had he been even twenty years younger, he might have played more to her
true game. Long years as a widower stretched behind him, and the Lord
Captain Commander of the Children of the Light had little time for
pleasantries with women, little time for anything except being Lord
Captain Commander. Had he been twenty years younger—well,
twentyfive—and she not trained by the Tar Valon witches. It was easy to
forget that, in her presence. The White Tower was a sink of iniquity and
the Shadow, and she touched deeply by it. Rhadam Asunawa, the High
Inquisitor, would have tried her for her months in the White Tower and
hanged her without delay, had Niall allowed it. He sighed regretfully.

Morgase kept her victorious smile, but those big eyes studied his face
with an intelligence she could not hide. He filled her goblet and his
own with wine from the silver pitcher sitting in a bowl of cool water
that had been ice a little while ago.

“My Lord Niall….” The hesitation was just right, the slim hand
halfstretched across the table toward him, the added respect in how she
addressed him. Once she had called him simply Niall, with more contempt
than she would have handed a drunken groom. The hesitation would have
been just right had he not had the measure of her. “My Lord Niall,
surely you can order Galad to Amador so I may see him. Just for a day.”

“I regret,” he replied smoothly, “that Galad’s duties keep him in the
north. You should be proud; he is one of the best young officers among
the Children.” Her stepson was a lever to use on her at need, one best
used now by keeping him away. The young man was a good officer,
perhaps the best to join the Children in Niall’s time, and there was no
need to put strains on his oath by letting him know his mother was here,
and a “guest” only by courtesy.

No more than a slight tightening of her mouth, quickly gone, betrayed
her disappointment. This was not the first time she had made that
request, nor would it be the last. Morgase Trakand did not surrender
just because it was plain she was beaten. “As you say, my Lord Niall,”
she said, so meekly that he nearly choked on his wine. Submissiveness
was a new tactic, one she must have worked up with difficulty. “It is
just a mother’s—”

“My Lord Captain Commander?” a deep, resonant voice broke in from the
doorway. “I fear I have important news that cannot wait, my Lord.” Abdel
Omerna stood tall in the whiteandgold tabard of a Lord Captain of the
Children of the Light, bold face framed by wings of white at his
temples, dark eyes deep and thoughtful. From head to toe he was fearless
and commanding. And a fool, though that was not apparent at a glance.

Morgase drew in on herself at the sight of Omerna, so small a motion
most men would not have noticed. She believed him spymaster for the
Children, as everyone did, a man to be feared almost as much as Asunawa,
perhaps more. Even Omerna himself did not know he was but a decoy to
keep eyes away from the true master of spies, a man known only to Niall
himself. Sebban Balwer, Niall’s dry little stick of a secretary. Yet
decoy or not, something useful did pass through Omerna’s hands on
occasion. On rare occasions, something dire. Niall had no doubts what
the man had brought; nothing else except Rand al’Thor at the gates would
have sent him barging in this way. The Light send it was all a rug
merchant’s madness.

“I fear our gaming is done for this morning,” Niall told Morgase,
standing. He offered her a slight bow as she rose, and she acknowledged
it by inclining her head.

“Until this evening, perhaps?” Her voice still held that almost docile
tone. “That is, if you will dine with me?”

Niall accepted, of course. He did not know where she was leading with
this new tactic—not where an oaf might suppose, he was sure—but it would
be amusing to find out. The woman was full of surprises. Such a pity she
was tainted by the witches.

Omerna advanced as far as the great sunflare of gold, set in the floor,
that had been worn by feet and knees over centuries. It was a plain room
aside from that and the captured banners that lined the walls high
beneath the ceiling, agetattered and worn. Omerna watched her skirt
around him without really acknowledging his presence, and when the door
closed behind her, he said, “I have not yet found Elayne or Gawyn, my
Lord.”

“Is that your important news?” Niall demanded irritably. Balwer
reported Morgase’s daughter in Ebou Dar, still mired to her neck with
the witches; orders concerning her had already been sent to Jaichim
Carridin. Her other son still toiled with the witches as well, it
seemed, in Tar Valon, where even Balwer possessed few eyesandears.
Niall took a long swallow of cool wine. His bones felt old and brittle
and cold of late, yet the Shadowspawned heat made his skin sweat enough,
and dried his mouth.

Omerna gave a start. “Ah … no, my Lord.” He fumbled in a pocket of his
white undercoat and pulled out a tiny bone cylinder with three red
stripes running its length. “You wanted this brought as soon as the
pigeon arrived in the—” He cut off as Niall snatched the tube.

This was what he had been waiting for, the reason a legion was not
already on its way to Andor with Morgase riding at its head, if not
leading. If it was not all Varadin’s madness, the ravings of a man
unbalanced by watching Tarabon collapse into anarchy, Andor would have
to wait. Andor, and maybe more.

“I … I have confirmation that the White Tower truly has broken,” Omerna
went on. “The … the Black Ajah has seized Tar Valon.” No wonder he
sounded nervous, speaking heresy. There was no Black Ajah; all of the
witches were Darkfriends.

Niall ignored him and broke the wax sealing the tube with his thumbnail.
He had used Balwer to start those rumors, and now they came back to him.
Omerna believed every rumor his ears caught, and his ears caught them
all.

“And there are reports that the witches are conferring with the false
Dragon al’Thor, my Lord.”

Of course the witches were conferring with him! He was their creation,
their puppet. Niall shut out the fool’s blather and moved back to the
gaming table while he drew a slim roll of paper from the tube. He never
let anyone know more of these messages than that they existed, and few
knew that much. His hands trembled as they unrolled the thin paper. His
hands had not trembled since he was a boy facing his first battle, more
than seventy years ago. Those hands seemed little more than bone and
sinew now, but they still possessed enough strength for what he had to
do.

The writing was not that of Varadin, but of Faisar, sent to Tarabon for
a different purpose. Niall’s stomach twisted into a knot as he read; it
was in clear language, not Varadin’s cipher. Varadin’s reports had been
the work of a man on the brink of madness if not over, yet Faisar
confirmed the worst of it and more. Much more. Al’Thor was a rabid
beast, a destroyer who must be stopped, but now a second mad animal had
appeared, one that might be even more dangerous than the Tar Valon
witches with their tame false Dragon. But how under the Light could he
fight both?

“It … it seems that Queen Tenobia has left Saldaea, my Lord. And the …
the Dragonsworn are burning and killing across Altara and Murandy. I
have heard the Horn of Valere has been found, in Kandor.”

Still halfdistracted, Niall looked up to find Omerna at his side,
licking his lips and wiping sweat from his forehead with the back of his
hand. No doubt he hoped for a glance at what was in the message. Well,
everyone would know soon enough.

“It seems one of your wilder fancies wasn’t so wild after all,” Niall
said, and that was when he felt the knife go in under his ribs.

Shock froze him long enough for Omerna to pull the dagger free and
plunge it in again. Other Lord Captain Commanders had died this way
before him, yet he had never thought it would be Omerna. He tried to
grapple with his killer, but there was no force in his arms. He hung on
to Omerna with the man supporting him, the pair of them eye to eye.

Omerna’s face was red; he looked ready to weep. “It had to be done. It
had to be. You let the witches sit there in Salidar unhindered, and….”
As if suddenly realizing that he had his arms around the man he was
murdering, he pushed Niall away.

Strength had gone from Niall’s legs now as well as his arms. He fell
heavily against the gaming table, turning it over. Black and white
stones scattered across the polished wooden floor around him; the silver
pitcher bounced and splashed wine. The cold in his bones was leaching
out into the rest of him.

He was not certain whether time had slowed for him or everything really
did happen so quickly. Boots thudded across the floor, and he lifted his
head wearily to see Omerna gaping and wideeyed, backing away from Eamon
Valda. Every bit as much the picture of a Lord Captain as Omerna in his
whiteandgold tabard and white undercoat, Valda was not so tall, not so
plainly commanding, but the dark man’s face was hard, as ever, and he
had a sword in his hands, the heronmark blade he prized so highly.

“Treason!” Valda bellowed, and drove the sword through Omerna’s chest.

Niall would have laughed if he could; breath came hard, and he could
hear it bubbling in the blood in his throat. He had never liked Valda—in
fact, he despised the man—but someone had to know. His eyes shifted,
found the slip of paper from Tanchico lying not far from his hand; it
might be missed there, but not if his corpse clutched it. And that
message had to be read. His hand seemed to crawl across the floorboards
so slowly, brushing the paper, pushing it as he fumbled to take hold.
His vision was growing misty. He tried to force himself to see. He had
to…. The fog was thicker. Part of him tried to shake that thought; there
was no fog. The fog was thicker, and there was an enemy out there,
unseen, hidden, as dangerous as al’Thor or more. The message. What? What
message? It was time to mount and out sword, time for one last attack.
By the Light, win or die, he was coming! He tried to snarl.



Valda wiped his blade on Omerna’s tabard, then suddenly realized the old
wolf still breathed, a rasping, bubbling sound. Grimacing, he bent to
make an end—and a gaunt, longfingered hand caught his arm.

“Would you be Lord Captain Commander now, my son?” Asunawa’s emaciated
face belonged on a martyr, yet his dark eyes burned with a fervor to
unnerve even those who did not know who he was. “You may well be, after
I attest that you killed Pedron Niall’s assassin. But not if I must say
that you ripped open Niall’s throat as well.”

Baring teeth in what could pass for a smile, Valda straightened. Asunawa
had a love of truth, a strange love; he could tie it into knots, or hang
it up and flay it while it screamed, but so far as Valda knew, he never
actually lied. A look at Niall’s glazed eyes, and the pool of blood
spreading beneath him, satisfied Valda. The old man was dying.

“May, Asunawa?”

The High Inquisitor’s gaze burned hotter as Asunawa stepped back, moving
the snowy cloak away from Niall’s blood. Even a Lord Captain was not
supposed to be that familiar. “I said may, my son. You have been oddly
reluctant to agree that the witch Morgase must be given to the Hand of
the Light. Unless you give that assurance—”

“Morgase is needed yet.” Breaking in gave Valda considerable pleasure.
He did not like Questioners, the Hand of the Light as they called
themselves. Who could like men who never met an enemy not disarmed and
in chains? They held themselves apart from the Children, separate.
Asunawa’s cloak bore only the scarlet shepherd’s crook of the
Questioners, not the flaring golden sun of the Children that graced his
own tabard. Worse, they seemed to think their work with racks and hot
irons was the only true work of the Children. “Morgase gives us Andor,
so you cannot have her before we have it. And we cannot take Andor until
the Prophet’s mobs are crushed.” The Prophet had to be first, preaching
the coming of the Dragon Reborn, his mobs burning villages too slow to
proclaim for al’Thor. Niall’s chest barely moved, now. “Unless you want
to trade Amadicia for Andor, instead of holding both? I mean to see
al’Thor hung and the White Tower ground to dust, Asunawa, and I did not
go along with your plan just to see you toss it all on the midden.”

Asunawa was not taken aback; he was no coward. Not here, with hundreds
of Questioners in the Fortress and most of the Children wary of putting
a foot wrong around them. He ignored the sword in Valda’s hands, and
that martyr’s face took on a look of sadness. His sweat seemed to be
tears of regret. “In that case, since Lord Captain Canvele believes that
the law must be obeyed, I fear—”

“I fear Canvele agrees with me, Asunawa.” Since dawn he did, since he
realized that Valda had brought half a legion into the Fortress. Canvele
was no fool. “The question is not whether I will be Lord Captain
Commander when the sun sets today, but who will guide the Hand of the
Light in its digging for truth.”

No coward, Asunawa, and even less a fool than Canvele. He neither
flinched nor demanded how Valda thought to bring this about. “I see,” he
said after a moment, and then, mildly, “Do you mean to flout the law
entirely, my son?”

Valda almost laughed. “You can examine Morgase, but she is not to be put
to the question. You can have her for that when I am done with her.”
Which might take a little time; finding a replacement for the Lion
Throne, one who understood her proper relationship to the Children as
King Ailron did here, would not happen overnight.

Perhaps Asunawa understood and perhaps not. He opened his mouth, and
there was a gasp from the doorway. Niall’s pinchfaced secretary stood
there, pursemouthed and knobby, narrow eyes trying to stare at
everything except the bodies stretched out on the floor.

“A sad day, Master Balwer,” Asunawa intoned, his voice sorrowful iron.
“The traitor Omerna has slain our Lord Captain Commander Pedron Niall,
the Light illumine his soul.” Not an advance on the truth; Niall’s chest
no longer moved, and killing him had been treason. “Lord Captain Valda
entered too late to save him, but he did slay Omerna in the full depth
of his sin.” Balwer gave a start and began drywashing his hands.

The birdlike fellow made Valda itch. “Since you are here, Balwer, you
may as well be useful.” He disliked useless people, and the scribbler
was the very form of uselessness. “Carry this message to each Lord
Captain in the Fortress. Tell them the Lord Captain Commander has been
murdered, and I call for a meeting of the Council of the Anointed.” His
first act on being named Lord Captain Commander would be to boot the
driedup little man out of the Fortress, boot him so far he bounced
twice, and choose a secretary who did not twitch. “Whether Omerna was
bought by the witches or the Prophet, I mean to see Pedron Niall
avenged.”

“As you say, my Lord.” Balwer’s voice was dry and narrow. “It shall be
as you say.” He apparently found himself able to look on Niall’s body at
last; as he bowed himself out jerkily, he hardly looked at anything
else.

“So it seems you will be our next Lord Captain Commander after all,”
Asunawa said once Balwer was gone.

“So it seems,” Valda answered dryly. A tiny slip of paper lay next to
Niall’s outstretched hand, the sort used in sending messages by pigeon.
Valda bent and picked it up, then exhaled in disgust. The paper had been
sitting in a puddle of wine; whatever had been written on it was lost,
the ink a blur.

“And the Hand will have Morgase when your need for her is done.” That
was not in the slightest a question.

“I will hand her to you myself.” Perhaps a little something might be
arranged to sate Asunawa’s appetite for a while. It might make sure
Morgase remained amenable, too. Valda dropped the bit of rubbish on
Niall’s corpse. The old wolf had lost his cunning and his nerve with
age, and now it would be up to Eamon Valda to bring the witches and
their false Dragon to heel.



Flat on his belly on a rise, Gawyn surveyed disaster beneath the
afternoon sun. Dumai’s Wells lay miles to the south now, across rolling
plain and low hills, but he could still see the smoke from burning
wagons. What had happened there after he led what he could gather of the
Younglings in breaking out, he did not know. Al’Thor had seemed well in
charge, al’Thor and those blackcoated men who appeared to be
channeling, taking down Aes Sedai and Aiel alike. It had been the
realization that sisters were fleeing that told him it was time to go.

He wished he could have killed al’Thor. For his mother, dead by the
man’s doing; Egwene denied it, but she had no proof. For his sister. If
Min had spoken the truth—he should have made her leave the camp with
him, whatever she wanted; there was too much he should have done
differently today—if Min was right, and Elayne loved al’Thor, then that
dreadful fate was reason enough to kill. Maybe the Aiel had done the
work for him. He doubted it, though.

With a sour laugh he raised the tube of his looking glass. One of the
golden bands bore an inscription. “From Morgase, Queen of Andor, to her
beloved son, Gawyn. May he be a living sword for his sister and Andor.”
Bitter words, now.

There was not much to see beyond sere grass and small, scattered clumps
of trees. The wind still gusted, raising waves of dust. Occasionally a
flash of movement in a crease between squat ridges spoke of men on the
move. Aiel, he was sure. They blended with the land too well to be
greencoated Younglings. The Light send that more had escaped than those
he had brought out.

He was a fool. He should have killed al’Thor; he had to kill him. But he
could not. Not because the man was the Dragon Reborn, but because he had
promised Egwene not to raise a hand against al’Thor. As a lowly
Accepted, she had vanished from Cairhien, leaving Gawyn only a letter
that he had read and reread until the paper was ready to tear along the
folds, and he would be unsurprised to learn she had gone to aid al’Thor
in some way. He could not break his word, least of all to the woman he
loved. Never his word to her. Whatever the cost to himself. He hoped she
would accept the compromise he had made with his honor; he had raised
not a hand to harm, but none to help, either. The Light send she never
asked that of him. It was said that love addled men’s brains, and he was
the proof.

Suddenly he pressed the looking glass to his eye as a woman galloped a
tall black horse into the open. He could not make out her face, but no
servant would be wearing a dress divided for riding. So at least one Aes
Sedai had managed to escape. If sisters had made it out of the trap
alive, maybe more of the Younglings had too. With luck, he could find
them before they were killed in small groups by the Aiel. First there
was the matter of this sister, though. In many ways he would rather have
gone on without her, but leaving her alone, maybe to take an arrow she
never saw coming, was not an option he could allow himself. As he
started to rise and wave to her, though, the horse stumbled and fell,
pitching her over its head.

He cursed, then again when the looking glass showed him an arrow
standing up from the black’s side. Hastily he scanned the hills, and bit
down On another curse; maybe two dozen veiled Aiel stood on a crest
staring toward downed horse and rider, less than a hundred paces from
the Aes Sedai. Quickly he glanced back. The sister rose unsteadily to
her feet. If she kept her wits and used the Power, there should be no
way a few Aiel could harm her, especially if she took shelter against
more arrows behind the fallen horse. Even so, he would feel better when
he had gathered her in. Rolling away from the crest to lessen the
chances of the Aiel seeing him, he slid down the reverse slope until he
could stand.

He had brought five hundred and eightyone Younglings south, almost
every one who was far enough along in training to leave Tar Valon, but
fewer than two hundred waited on their horses in the hollow. Before
disaster struck at Dumai’s Wells, he was certain there had been a plot
afoot to see that he and the Younglings died without returning to the
White Tower. Why, he did not know, nor whether the scheme came from
Elaida or Galina, but it had succeeded well enough, if not exactly in
the way its devisers had thought. Small wonder that he would have
preferred to go on without Aes Sedai, had he any choice.

He stopped beside a tall gray gelding with a young rider. Young, as
indeed all the Younglings were—many did not need to shave beyond every
third day, and a few still only pretended even that—but Jisao wore the
silver tower on his collar, marking him a veteran of the fighting when
Siuan Sanche was deposed, and scars beneath his clothes from fighting
since. He was one of those who could skip the razor most mornings; his
dark eyes belonged to a man thirty years older, though. What did his own
eyes look like, Gawyn wondered.

“Jisao, we have a sister to pull out of the—”

The hundred or so Aiel who came trotting over the low rise to the west
recoiled in surprise at finding the Younglings below, but neither
surprise nor the Younglings’ superior numbers held them back. In a flash
they veiled and plunged down the slope, darting in with spears stabbing
at horses as often as riders, working in pairs. Yet if the Aiel knew how
to fight men on horseback, the Younglings had recently had rough lessons
in how to fight Aiel, and slow learners did not live long in their
ranks. Some carried slender lances, ending in a foot and a half of steel
with a crossguard to prevent the head penetrating too deeply, and all
could use their swords as well as any but a blademaster. They fought in
twos and threes, each man watching another’s back, keeping their mounts
moving so the Aiel could not hamstring the animals. Only the quickest
Aiel managed to get inside those circles of flashing steel. The
wartrained horses themselves were weapons, splitting skulls with their
hooves, seizing men with their teeth and shaking them like dogs worrying
rats, jaws tearing away half a man’s face. The horses screamed as they
fought, and men grunted with effort, shouted with the fever that
overtook men in battle, the fever that said they were alive and would
live to see another sunrise if they had to wade waistdeep in blood.
They shouted as they killed, shouted as they died; there seemed little
difference.

Gawyn had no time to watch or listen, though. The only Youngling afoot,
he attracted attention. Three cadin’sorclad figures dodged through
the horsemen, rushing at him with spears ready. Perhaps they thought him
easy meat, three on one. He disabused them. His sword left the scabbard
smoothly, as smoothly as he flowed from The Falcon Stoops to The Creeper
Embraces the Oak to The Moon Rises Over the Lakes. Three times he felt
the shock in his wrists of blade meeting flesh, and that quickly three
veiled Aielmen were down; two still moving weakly, but they were out of
the fight as much as the other. The next to confront him was a different
matter.

A lean fellow, overtopping Gawyn by a hand, he moved like a snake, spear
flickering while his buckler darted and slanted to deflect sword strokes
with a force Gawyn could feel to his shoulders. The Wood Grouse Dances
became Folding the Air became The Courtier Taps His Fan, and the Aielman
met each of them at the cost of a slash along his ribs, while Gawyn took
a gash on his thigh that only a quick twist kept from being a stab clean
through.

They circled one another, oblivious to whatever happened around them.
Blood oozed hot down Gawyn’s leg. The Aielman feinted, hoping to draw
him off balance, feinted again; Gawyn shifted from stance to stance,
sword now high, now low, hoping the man would extend one of those
halfthrusts just a little too far.

In the end, it was chance that decided matters. The Aielman abruptly
stumbled a step, and Gawyn ran him through the heart before he even saw
the horse that had backed into the man.

Once he would have felt regret; he had grown up believing that if two
men must fight, the duel should proceed honorably and cleanly. More than
half a year of battles and skirmishes had taught him better. He put a
foot on the Aielman’s chest and wrenched his blade free. Ungallant, but
fast, and in battle, slow was often dead.

Only, when his sword was free, there was no need for speed. Men were
down, Younglings and Aielmen, some groaning, some still, and the rest of
the Aiel streaming away to the east, harried by two dozen Younglings,
including some who should know better. “Hold!” he shouted. If the idiots
allowed themselves to become separated, the Aiel would cut them to
dogmeat. “No pursuit! Hold, I said! Hold, burn you!” The Younglings
pulled up reluctantly.

Jisao reined his gelding around. “They just thought to cut a path
through us on the way wherever they’re going, my Lord.” His sword
dripped red from half its length.

Gawyn caught the reins of his own bay stallion and swung into the
saddle, not waiting to clean or sheath his blade. No time to see who was
dead, who might live. “Forget them. That sister is waiting for us. Hal,
keep your halftroop to look after the wounded. And watch those Aiel;
just because they’re dying doesn’t mean they have quit. The rest, follow
me.” Hal saluted with his sword, but Gawyn was already digging in his
spurs.

The skirmish had not lasted long, yet too long however short. When Gawyn
reached the crest, only the dead horse was to be seen, its saddlebags
turned out. Scanning through his looking glass revealed not a sign of
the sister, the Aiel or anything else living. All that moved was
windblown dust and a dress on the ground near the horse, stirring in the
gusts. The woman must have sprinted to be so completely out of sight so
quickly.

“She can’t have gone far, even running,” Jisao said. “We can find her if
we fan out.”

“We’ll search after we see to the wounded,” Gawyn replied firmly. He was
not about to split up his men with Aiel roaming loose. Only a few hours
yet till sunset, and he wanted a tight camp on high ground before then.
It might be as well if he did manage to find a sister or two; someone
was going to have to explain this catastrophe to Elaida, and he would as
soon it was an Aes Sedai facing her wrath, not him.

Turning his bay with a sigh, he rode back down to see what the butcher’s
bill had been this time. That had been his first real lesson as a
soldier. You always had to pay the butcher. He had a feeling there would
be bigger bills due soon. The world would forget Dumai’s Wells in what
was coming.

 


