A Sense of Humor 


The tent’s dim interior was hot enough to make Caemlyn, some eight
hundred miles or so north, seem pleasantly cool, and when Rand pushed
the flap open, he blinked. The sun was a hammer that made him glad of
the shoufa.

A copy of the Dragon banner hung above the greenstriped tent, alongside
one of the crimson banners bearing the ancient Aes Sedai symbol. More
tents stretched across a rolling plain where all but a few tufts of
tough grass had long since been beaten to dust by hooves and
boots—peakroofed tents and flat, most white by far if often dirty
white, but many in colors or stripes, tents and the colorful banners of
lords. An army had gathered here on the border of Tear, on the edge of
the Plains of Maredo, thousands upon thousands of soldiers from Tear and
Cairhien. The Aiel had made their own camps well away from the
wetlanders, five Aiel for every Tairen and Cairhienin and more arriving
by the day. It was an army to make Illian shake in its boots, a host
already mighty enough to smash anything in its path.

Enaila and the rest of the foreguard were already outside, veils down,
with a dozen or so Aielmen. The Aiel kept a constant guard on this tent.
Clothed and armed like the Maidens, they were as tall as Rand or taller,
lions to the Maidens’ leopards, hardfaced sundark men with cold eyes
of blue or green or gray. Today they were Sha’mad Conde, Thunder
Walkers, led by Roidan himself, who headed the
society this side of the Dragonwall. The Maidens carried the honor of
the Car’a’carn, but every warrior society demanded some share of the
guard duty.

One thing about some of the men’s garb differed from the Maidens’. Half
wore a crimson cloth knotted around their temples, with the ancient Aes
Sedai symbol a blackandwhite disc above their brows. It was a new
thing, first seen only a few months earlier. Wearers of the headband
considered themselves siswai’aman; in the Old Tongue, the Spears of
the Dragon. The Spears Owned by the Dragon might be closer. The
headbands, and their meaning, made Rand uncomfortable, but there was
little he could do when the men refused even to admit they were wearing
them. Why no Maidens had donned the things—none he had seen at least—he
had no idea. They were almost as reluctant to talk about it as the men.

“I see you, Rand al’Thor,” Roidan said gravely. There was considerably
more gray than yellow in Roidan’s hair, but a blacksmith could have used
the heavyshouldered man’s face for hammer or anvil, and by the scars
across his cheeks and nose it seemed possible that more than one had.
Icy blue eyes made his face soft by comparison. He avoided looking at
Rand’s sword. “May you find shade this day.” That had nothing to do with
the molten sun or the cloudless sky—Roidan did not seem to sweat at
all—it was simply a greeting among people from a land where the sun was
always baking hot and a tree rare.

Equally formal, Rand replied, “I see you, Roidan. May you find shade
this day. Is the High Lord Weiramon about?”

Roidan nodded toward a large pavilion with redstriped sides and a
crimson roof, ringed by men with tall spears slanted precisely,
shouldertoshoulder in the burnished breastplates and goldandblack
coats of Tairen Defenders of the Stone. Above it, the Three Crescents of
Tear, white on red and gold, and the manyrayed Rising Sun of Cairhien,
gold on blue, flanked Rand’s own scarlet flag, all three twitching in a
breeze that might have come from an oven.

“The wetlanders are all there.” Looking Rand straight in the eyes,
Roidan added, “Bruan has not been asked to that tent in three days, Rand
al’Thor.” Bruan was clan chief of the Nakai Aiel, Roidan’s clan; they
were both Salt Flat sept. “Nor has Han of the Tomanelle, or Dhearic of
the Reyn, or any clan chief.”

“I will speak with them,” Rand said. “Will you tell Bruan and the others
I am here?” Roidan nodded gravely.

Eyeing the men sideways, Enaila leaned close to Jalani, then spoke in a
whisper that could have been heard clearly at
ten paces. “Do you know why they are called Thunder Walkers? Because
even when they are standing still, you keep looking to the sky expecting
to see lightning.” The Maidens hooted with laughter.

A young Thunder Walker leaped in the air, kicking a soft kneehigh boot
higher than Rand’s head. He was handsome except for the puckered white
scar that ran up under the strip of black cloth covering a missing eye.
He wore the headband, too. “Do you know why Maidens use handtalk?” he
shouted at the top of his leap, and, landing, he put on a befuddled
grimace. Not directed at the Maidens, though; he spoke to his
companions, ignoring the women. “Because even when they are not talking,
they cannot stop talking.” The Sha’mad Conde laughed as hard as the
Maidens had.

“Only Thunder Walkers would see honor in guarding an empty tent,” Enaila
told Jalani sadly, shaking her head. “The next time they call for wine,
if the gai’shain bring them empty cups, they will no doubt get drunker
than we can on oosquai.”

Apparently the Thunder Walkers thought Enaila had gained the best of the
exchange. The oneeyed man and several others raised their bullhide
bucklers toward her and rattled spears against them. For her part, she
simply listened a moment, then nodded to herself and fell in with the
others as they followed Rand.

Musing to himself about Aiel humor, Rand studied the sprawling camp. The
aromas of food drifted from hundreds of scattered cookfires, bread
baking in coals, meat roasting on spits, soup bubbling in kettles hung
on tripods. Soldiers always ate well and often when they could;
campaigning usually brought scant meals. The fires added their own
sweetish smells; there was more dried ox dung to burn on the Plains of
Maredo than wood.

Here and there archers or crossbowmen or pikemen moved about in leather
jerkins sewn with steel discs or simply padded coats, but Tairen and
Cairhienin nobles alike despised foot and lauded horse, so mounted men
were most in evidence. Tairens in helmets rimmed and ridged, and breast
plates over fatsleeved coats striped in the colors of their various
lords. Cairhienin in dark coats and battered breastplates and helmets
like bells cut away to expose their faces. Small banners called con,
on short staffs fastened to some men’s backs, marked minor Cairhienin
nobility and younger sons, and sometimes merely officers, though few
Cairhienin commoners rose to rank. Or Tairen, for that matter. The two
nationalities did not mingle, and while the Tairens often slouched in
their saddles and always directed a sneer at any
Cairhienin who came near, the shorter Cairhien sat their horses stiffly,
as though straining for the last inch of height, and ignored the Tairens
completely. They had fought more than one war against each other before
Rand made them ride together.

Roughly dressed, grizzled old men and some little more than boys went
poking around the tents with stout sticks, one or another now and again
scaring up a rat that he chased down and clubbed before adding it to the
others dangling from his belt. A bignosed fellow in a stained leather
vest and no shirt, bow in hand and quiver at his waist, laid a long
string of crows and ravens tied together by the feet on a table in front
of one tent and received a purse in exchange from the boredlooking
helmetless Tairen behind it. Few this far south really believed
Myrddraal used rats and ravens and such for spies—Light, except for
those who had actually seen them, almost no one this far south truly
believed in Myrddraal, or Trollocs!—but if the Lord Dragon wanted the
camp kept clear of the creatures, they were happy to oblige, especially
since the Lord Dragon paid in silver for every corpse.

Cheers rose, of course; no one else would be walking about with an
escort of Maidens of the Spear, and there was the Dragon Scepter. “The
Light illumine the Lord Dragon!” and “Grace favor the Lord Dragon!” and
the like showered from every side. Many even sounded sincere, though it
was difficult to tell with men bellowing at the top of their lungs.
Others only stared woodenly, or turned their horses and rode away, not
too fast. After all, there was no telling when he might decide to call
down lightning or make the ground split open; men who channeled did go
mad, and who knew what a madman might do or when? Whether cheering or
not, they eyed the Maidens warily. Few had really grown accustomed to
seeing women carrying weapons like men; besides, everyone knew Aiel were
every bit as unpredictable as madmen.

The noise was not enough to keep Rand from hearing what the Maidens were
saying behind him.

“He has a fine sense of humor. Who is he?” That was Enaila.

“His name is Leiran,” Somara replied. “A Cosaida Chareen. You think he
has humor because he thought your joke better than his. He does look to
have strong hands.” Several of the Maidens chortled.

“Did you not think Enaila funny, Rand al’Thor?” Sulin was striding at
his side. “You did not laugh. You never laugh. Sometimes I do not think
you have a sense of humor.”

Stopping dead, Rand rounded on them so suddenly
that several reached for their veils and looked about for what had
startled him. He cleared his throat. “An irascible old farmer named Hu
discovered one morning that his best rooster had flown into a tall tree
beside his farm pond and wouldn’t come down, so he went to his neighbor,
Wil, and asked for help. The men had never gotten along, but Wil finally
agreed, so the two men went to the pond and began climbing the tree, Hu
first. They meant to frighten the rooster out, you see, but the bird
only kept flying higher, branch by branch. Then, just as Hu and the
rooster reached almost the very top of the tree, with Wil right behind,
there was a loud crack, the branch under Hu’s feet broke away, and down
he went into the pond, splashing water and mud everywhere. Wil scrambled
down as fast as he could and reached out to Hu from the bank, but Hu
just lay there on his back, sinking deeper into the mud until only his
nose stuck out of the water. Another farmer had seen what happened, and
he came running and pulled Hu out of the pond. ‘Why didn’t you take
Wil’s hand?’ he asked Hu. ‘You could have drowned.’ ‘Why should I take
his hand now?’ Hu grumped. ‘I passed him just a moment ago in broad
daylight, and he never spoke a word to me.’ ” He waited expectantly.

The Maidens exchanged blank looks. Finally Somara said, “What happened
with the pond? Surely the water is the point of this story.”

Throwing up his hands, Rand started for the redstriped pavilion again.
Behind him he heard Liah say, “I think it was supposed to be a joke.”

“How can we laugh when he doesn’t know what happened to the water?”
Maira said.

“It was the rooster,” Enaila put in. “Wetlander humor is strange. I
think it was something about the rooster.”

He tried to stop listening.

The Defenders stiffened even more rigidly at his approach, if that was
possible, and the two standing before the goldfringed entry flaps
stepped aside smoothly, pulling them open. Their eyes stared past the
Aiel women.

Rand had led the Defenders of the Stone once, in a desperate fight
against Myrddraal and Trollocs in the halls of the Stone of Tear itself.
They would have followed anyone who stepped forward to lead that night,
but it had been him.

“The Stone still stands,” he said quietly. That had been their
battlecry. Quick smiles flashed across some of those faces before they
snapped back to wooden stillness. In Tear commoners did not smile at
what a lord said unless absolutely sure the lord wanted them to smile.

Most of the Maidens squatted easily outside, spears across their knees,
a posture they could hold for hours without
moving a muscle, but Sulin followed Rand inside with Liah, Enaila and
Jalani. If those Defenders had all been childhood friends of Rand, the
Maidens would have been as cautious, but the men inside were not friends
at all.

Colorful, fringed carpets floored the pavilion, Tairen mazes and
elaborate scrollwork patterns, and in the middle sat a massive table,
heavily carved and gilded and garishly inlaid with ivory and turquoise,
that very likely needed a wagon all to itself for transport. The
mapcovered table separated a dozen sweatyfaced Tairens from half as
many Cairhienin, who suffered even more from the heat, each man holding
a golden goblet that selfeffacing servants in blackandgold livery
kept filled with punch. All the nobles were in silk, but the
cleanshaven Cairhienin, short, slight and pale compared to the men on
the other side of the table, wore coats dark and sober except for bright
horizontal slashes of their House colors across the chest, the number
indicating the rank of the House, while the Tairens, most with beards
oiled and trimmed to neat points, wore padded coats that were a garden
of red and yellow and green and blue, satin and brocade, silver thread
and threadofgold. The Cairhienin were solemn, even dour, most
gauntcheeked and each with the front of his head shaved and powdered in
what had once been the fashion only among soldiers in Cairhien, not
lords. The Tairens smiled and sniffed scented handkerchiefs and
pomanders that filled the pavilion with their heavy aromas. Beside the
punch, the one thing they seemed to have in common was flateyed stares
for the Maidens, followed hard by the pretense that the Aiel were
invisible.

The High Lord Weiramon, oiled beard and hair streaked gray, bowed
deeply. He was one of four High Lords there, in elaborately
silverworked boots, the others being unctuous, overly plump Sunamon;
Tolmeran, whose irongray beard seemed a spear point on the shaft of his
leanness; and potatonosed Torean, looking more a farmer than most
farmers—but Rand had given Weiramon the command. For the time being. The
other eight were lesser lords, some cleanshaven though with no less
gray in their hair; they were here through their oaths of fealty to one
or another of the High Lords, yet they all had some experience of
fighting.

Weiramon was not short for a Tairen, though Rand stood a head taller,
but he always reminded Rand of a banty rooster, all puffed out chest and
strutting. “All hail the Lord Dragon,” he intoned, bowing, “soon to be
Conqueror of Illian. All hail the Lord of the Morning.” The rest were no
more than a breath behind, Tairens spreading arms wide, Cairhienin
touching hand to heart.

Rand grimaced. Lord of the Morning had been one
of Lews Therin’s titles, or so the fragmentary histories said. A great
deal of knowledge had been lost in the Breaking of the World, and more
went up in smoke during the Trolloc Wars and later during the War of the
Hundred Years, yet surprising shards sometimes survived. He was
surprised that Weiramon’s use of the title had not brought Lews Therin’s
mad yammering. Come to think of it, Rand had not heard that voice since
shouting at it. As far as he could recall that was the first time he had
ever actually addressed the voice sharing his head. The possibilities
behind that sent a chill down his back.

“My Lord Dragon?” Sunamon drywashed fleshy hands. He seemed to be
trying not to see the shoufa wrapped around Rand’s head. “Are you—?”
Swallowing his words, he put on an ingratiating smile; asking a
potential madman—potential at the very least—whether he was well was
perhaps not what he wanted to say. “Would the Lord Dragon like some
punch? A Lodanaille vintage mixed with honeymelon.” A lanky Lord of the
Land sworn to Sunamon, a man named Estevan with a hard jaw and harder
eyes, motioned sharply, and a servant darted for a golden goblet from a
side table against the canvas wall; another hurried to fill it.

“No,” Rand said, then more strongly, “No.” He waved the servant away
without really seeing him. Had Lews Therin actually heard? Somehow
that made the whole thing worse. He did not want to think about the
possibility now; he did not want to think of it at all. “As soon as
Hearne and Simaan get here, almost everything will be in place.” Those
two High Lords should be arriving soon; they led the last large parties
of Tairen soldiers to have left Cairhien, over a month ago. Of course,
there were smaller groups on the way south, and more Cairhienin. More
Aiel, too; the stream of Aiel would draw things out. “I want to see—”

Abruptly he realized the pavilion had gone very quiet, very still,
except for Torean suddenly tipping back his head to gulp down the rest
of his punch. He scrubbed a hand across his mouth and held out the
goblet for more, but the servants seemed to be trying to fade into the
redstriped walls. Sulin and the other three Maidens were suddenly up on
their toes, ready to veil.

“What is it?” he asked quietly.

Weiramon hesitated. “Simaan and Hearne have . . . gone to Haddon Mirk.
They are not coming.” Torean snatched a workedgold pitcher from one of
the servants and filled his own goblet, slopping punch onto the carpets.

“And why have they gone there instead of coming
here?” Rand did not raise his voice. He was sure he knew the answer.
Those two—and five more High Lords besides—had been sent to Cairhien
mainly to occupy minds set to plot against him.

Malicious smiles flickered among the Cairhienin, most halfhidden in
quickly raised goblets. Semaradrid, the highestranking, slashes of
color on his coat to below the waist, wore his sneer openly. A
longfaced man with white streaks at his temples and dark eyes that
could chip stone, he moved stiffly from wounds suffered in his land’s
civil war, but his limp came from fighting Tear. His main reason for
cooperating with the Tairens was that they were not Aiel. But then, the
Tairens’ main reason for cooperating was that the Cairhienin were not.

It was one of Semaradrid’s countrymen who answered, a young lord named
Meneril who had half Semaradrid’s stripes on his coat, and on his face a
scar from the civil war that pulled up the left corner of his mouth in a
permanent sardonic smile. “Treason, my Lord Dragon. Treason and
rebellion.”

Weiramon might have been hesitant about saying those words to Rand’s
face, yet he was not about to let an outlander speak for him. “Yes,
rebellion,” he said hurriedly, glaring at Meneril, but his usual
pomposity quickly returned. “And not only them, my Lord Dragon. The High
Lords Darlin and Tedosian and the High Lady Estanda are in it, too. Burn
my soul, but they all put their names to a letter of defiance! It seems
some twenty or thirty minor nobles are involved as well, some little
more than jumpedup farmers. Lightblasted fools!”

Rand almost admired Darlin. The man had opposed him openly from the
start, fleeing the Stone when it fell and trying to rouse resistance
among the country nobles. Tedosian and Estanda were different. Like
Hearne and Simaan they had bowed and smiled, called him Lord Dragon and
plotted behind his back. Now his forbearance was repaid. No wonder
Torean was spilling punch over his whitestreaked beard as he drank; he
had been involved deeply with Tedosian, and with Hearne and Simaan for
that matter.

“They wrote more than defiance,” Tolmeran said in a cold voice. “They
wrote that you are a false Dragon, that the fall of the Stone and your
drawing of The Sword That Is Not a Sword were some Aes Sedai trick.”
There was a hint of question in his tone; he had not been in the Stone
of Tear the night it fell to Rand.

“What do you believe, Tolmeran?” It was a seductive claim in a land
where channeling had been outlawed before Rand
changed the law, and Aes Sedai were at best tolerated, where the Stone
of Tear had stood invincible for close to three thousand years before
Rand took it. And a familiar claim. Rand wondered whether he would find
Whitecloaks when these rebels were laid by the heels. He thought Pedron
Niall might be too smart to allow that.

“I think you drew Callandor,” the lean man said after a moment. “I
think you are the Dragon Reborn.” Both times there was a slight emphasis
on “think.” Tolmeran had courage. Estevan nodded; slowly, but he did it.
Another brave man.

Even they did not ask the obvious question, though, whether Rand wanted
the rebels rooted out. Rand was not surprised. For one thing, Haddon
Mirk was no easy place to root anyone out of, a huge tangled forest
lacking villages, roads or even paths. In the choppy mountainous terrain
along its northernmost edge a man would be lucky to cover a handful of
miles in a long day, and armies could maneuver until their food ran out
without finding one another. Perhaps more importantly, whoever asked
that question could be suspected of volunteering to lead the expedition,
and a volunteer could be suspected of wanting to join Darlin, not lay
him by the heels. Tairens might not play Daes Dae’mar, the Game of
Houses, the way Cairhienin did—that lot read volumes in a glance and
heard more in a sentence than you ever meant to put there—but they still
schemed and watched one another, suspicious of schemes, and they
believed everyone else did the same.

Still, it suited Rand to leave the rebels where they were for now. All
of his attention had to be on Illian; it had to be seen to be there.
But he could not be seen as soft, either. These men would not turn on
him, but Last Battle or no Last Battle, only two things kept the Tairens
and Cairhienin from each other’s throats. They preferred each other to
Aielmen, if barely, and they feared the wrath of the Dragon Reborn. If
they lost that fear, they would be trying to kill one another, and the
Aiel, before you could say Jak o’ the Mists.

“Does anyone speak in their defense?” he asked. “Does anyone know any
mitigation?” If any did, they held their tongues; counting the servants,
nearly two dozen pairs of eyes watched him, waiting. Perhaps the
servants most intently of all. Sulin and the Maidens watched everything
except him. “Their titles are forfeited, their lands and estates
confiscated. Arrest warrants are to be signed for every man whose name
is known. And every woman.” That could present a
problem; the penalty in Tear for rebellion was death. He had changed
some laws, but not that one, and it was too late now. “Publish it that
whoever kills one of them will be absolved of murder, and whoever aids
them will be charged with treason. Any who surrender will be spared
their lives,” which might solve the difficulty of Estanda—he would not
order a woman executed—if he could work how to manage it, “but those who
persist will hang.”

The nobles shifted uneasily and exchanged glances, whether Tairen or
Cairhienin. Blood drained from more than one face. They had certainly
expected the death sentences—there could be no less for rebellion, and
with war in the offing—but the stripping of titles plainly shocked them.
Despite all the laws Rand had changed in both lands, despite lords
hauled before magistrates and hanged for murder or fined for assault,
they still thought there was some difference bred in the bone, some
natural order that made them lions by right and commoners sheep. A High
Lord who went to the gibbet died a High Lord, but Darlin and the others
would die peasants in these men’s eyes, a much worse fate than the dying
itself. The servants remained poised with their pitchers, waiting to
refill any goblet that had to be tilted very far in drinking. Features
as expressionless as ever, there seemed to be a cheerfulness in some of
those eyes not there before.

“Now that that’s settled,” Rand said, dragging off the shoufa as he
went to the table, “let’s see the maps. Sammael is more important than a
handful of fools rotting in Haddon Mirk.” He hoped they did rot. Burn
them!

Weiramon’s mouth tightened, and Tolmeran quickly smoothed out a frown.
Sunamon’s face was so smooth it might have been a mask. The other
Tairens looked as doubtful, and the Cairhienin as well, though
Semaradrid hid it well. Some had seen Myrddraal and Trollocs during that
attack on the Stone, and some had seen his duel with Sammael at
Cairhien, yet they thought his claim the Forsaken were loose a symptom
of insanity. He had heard whispers that he had wrought all the
destruction at Cairhien himself, striking out maniacally at friend and
foe alike. Going by Liah’s stony face, one of them was going to get a
Maiden’s spear through him if they did not guard those looks.

They gathered around the table, though, as he tossed down the shoufa
and rummaged through the maps scattered in layers. Bashere was right;
men would follow madmen who won. So long as they won. Just as he found
the map he wanted, a detailed drawing of the eastern end of Illian, the
Aiel chiefs arrived.

Bruan of the Nakai Aiel was first to enter,
followed closely by Jheran of the Shaarad, Dhearic of the Reyn, Han of
the Tomanelle, and Erim of the Chareen, each acknowledging the nods of
Sulin and the three Maidens. Bruan, a massive man with sad gray eyes,
really was the leader of the five clans Rand had sent south so far. None
of the others objected; Bruan’s oddly placid manner belied his battle
skills. Clothed in the cadin’sor, shoufa hanging loose about their
necks, they were unarmed except for their heavy belt knives, but then,
an Aiel was hardly unarmed even when he had only his hands and feet.

The Cairhienin simply pretended they were not there, but the Tairens
made a point of sneering and sniffing ostentatiously at their pomanders
and scented handkerchiefs. Tear had lost only the Stone to the Aiel, and
that with the aid of the Dragon Reborn, as they believed—or of Aes
Sedai—but Cairhien had twice been ravaged by them, twice defeated and
humiliated.

Except for Han, the Aiel ignored them all. Han, whitehaired and with a
face like creased leather, glared murderously. He was a prickly man at
best, and it might not have helped that some of the Tairens were as tall
as he. Han was short for an Aiel—which meant well above average for a
wetlander—and as touchy about it as Enaila. And of course, Aiel despised
“treekillers,” one of their names for Cairhienin, beyond any other
wetlanders. Their other name for them was “oathbreakers.”

“The Illianers,” Rand said firmly, smoothing the map out. He used the
Dragon Scepter to hold down one end and a goldmounted inkpot and
matching sandbowl for the other. He did not need these men to start
killing each other. He did not think they would—while he was there, at
least. In stories allies eventually came to trust and like one another;
he doubted these men ever would.

The rolling Plains of Maredo extended a little distance into Illian,
giving way to forested hills well short of the Manetherendrelle, and the
River Shal branching off from it. Five inked crosses about ten miles
apart marked the eastern edge of those hills. The Doirlon Hills.

Rand put his finger on the middle cross. “Are you sure Sammael has not
added any new camps?” A slight grimace on Weiramon’s face made him snap
irritably, “Lord Brend, if you prefer, then, or the Council of Nine, or
Mattin Stepaneos den Balgar, if you want the king himself. Are they
still like this?”

“Our scouts say so,” Jheran said calmly. Slender as a blade is slender,
his light brown hair heavily streaked with gray, he was always calm now
that the Shaarad’s fourhundredyear blood feud with the Goshien Aiel
had ended with Rand’s coming. “Sovin Nai and
Duadhe Mahdi’in keep a close watch.” He nodded slightly in
satisfaction, and so did Dhearic. Jheran had been Sovin Nai, a Knife
Hand, before becoming chief, and Dhearic Duadhe Mahdi’in, a Water
Seeker. “We know any changes in five days by runners.”

“My scouts believe they are,” Weiramon said as if Jheran had not spoken.
“I send a new troop every week. It takes a full month for them to come
and go, but I assure you, I am as uptodate as the distance allows.”

The Aiel’s faces might have been carved from stone.

Rand ignored the interplay. He had tried before to hammer shut the gaps
between Tairen, Cairhienin and Aiel, and they always sprang apart as
soon as his back turned. It was useless effort.

As for the camps. . . . He knew there were still only five; he had
visited them, in a manner of speaking. There was a . . . place . . .
that he knew how to enter, a strange, unpeopled reflection of the real
world, and he had walked the wooden walls of those massive hillforts
there. He knew the answers to almost every question he intended to ask,
but he was juggling plans within plans like a gleeman juggling fire.
“And Sammael is still bringing more men up?” This time he emphasized the
name. The Aiel’s expressions did not change—if the Forsaken were loose,
the Forsaken were loose; the world had to be faced as it was, not as you
wished it to be—but the others darted those quick, worried glances at
him. They had to get used to it sooner or later. They had to believe
sooner or later.

“Every man in Illian who can hold a spear without tripping over it, or
so it seems,” Tolmeran said with a glum expression. He was as eager to
fight the Illianers as any Tairen—the two nations had hated each other
since they were wrested from the wreckage of Artur Hawkwing’s empire;
their history was one of wars fought on the slightest excuse—but he
seemed a little less likely than the other High Lords to think every
battle could be won by one good charge. “Every scout that makes it back
reports the camps larger, with more formidable defenses.”

“We should move now, my Lord Dragon,” Weiramon said forcefully. “The
Light burn my soul, I can catch the Illianers with their breeches around
their ankles. They’ve tied themselves down. Why, they hardly have any
horse at all! I’ll crush them in detail, and the way will be open to the
city.” In Illian, as in Tear and Cairhien, “the city” was the city that
had given the nation its name. “Burn my eyes, I will put your banner
over Illian in a month, my Lord Dragon. Two at most.” Glancing at the
Cairhienin, he added as if the words were being pulled from him,
“Semaradrid and I will.” Semaradrid bowed slightly. Very slightly.

“No,” Rand said curtly. Weiramon’s was a plan
for disaster. A good two hundred and fifty miles lay between the camp
and Sammael’s great hillforts across a plain of grass where a fiftyfoot
rise was considered a tall hill and a thicket of two hides a forest.
Sammael had scouts, too; any rat or raven could be one of Sammael’s
scouts. Two hundred and fifty miles. Twelve or thirteen days for the
Tairens and Cairhienin, with luck. The Aiel could make it in perhaps
five, if they pushed—a lone scout or two moved faster than an army, even
among Aiel—but they were no part of Weiramon’s design. Long before
Weiramon reached the Doirlon Hills, Sammael would be ready to crush the
Tairen, not the other way around. A fool plan. Even more foolish than
the one Rand had given them. “I’ve given your orders. You hold here
until Mat arrives to take command, and even then, no one moves a foot
until I think I have enough numbers here. There are more men on their
way, Tairens, Cairhienin, Aiel. I mean to smash Sammael, Weiramon. Smash
him forever, and bring Illian under the Dragon Banner.” That much was
true. “I only wish I could be with you, but Andor requires my attention
yet.”

Weiramon’s face became sour stone, Semaradrid’s grimace should have
turned the wine in his punch to vinegar, and Tolmeran wore such a lack
of expression that his disapproval was plain as a fist in the nose. In
Semaradrid’s case, it was the delay that worried. He had pointed out
more than once that if every day brought more men to the camp here, it
also brought more to the forts in Illian. No doubt Weiramon’s plan was
the result of his urgings, though he would have made a better.
Tolmeran’s doubts centered on Mat. Despite what he had heard from
Cairhienin of Mat’s skill in battle, Tolmeran thought it flattery from
fools for a country man who happened to be a friend of the Dragon
Reborn. They were honest objections, and Semaradrid’s even had
validity—if the plan they had been given had been more than another
screen. It was unlikely Sammael depended entirely on rats and ravens for
his spying. Rand expected there were human spies in the camp for other
Forsaken as well, and probably for the Aes Sedai.

“It shall be as you say, my Lord Dragon,” Weiramon said heavily. The man
was brave enough when it came to battle, but a pure blind idiot unable
to think beyond the glory of the charge, his hatred of Illianers, his
contempt for Cairhienin and Aiel “savages.” Rand was sure Weiramon was
exactly the man he needed. Tolmeran and Semaradrid would not move too
soon so long as Weiramon held the command.

For a long while further they talked and Rand listened, asking
occasional questions. There was no more
opposition, no more suggestions that the attack be made now, no
discussion of the attack at all. What Rand questioned Weiramon and the
others about was wagons, wagons and what was in them. The Plains of
Maredo had few villages and far between, no city except Far Madding in
the north, and barely enough farmland to feed the people already there.
A huge army would need a constant stream of wagons out of Tear bringing
everything from flour for bread to nails for horseshoes. Except for
Tolmeran, the High Lords were of the opinion that the army could carry
what it needed to cross the plain and then could live off Illian; there
seemed to be a certain relish in the thought of stripping their ancient
enemy’s lands to the ground like a swarm of locusts. The Cairhienin had
a different opinion, especially Semaradrid and Meneril. Not only
commoners had gone hungry during Cairhien’s civil war and the Shaido’s
siege of their capital; their hollow cheeks spoke eloquently of that.
Illian was a fat land, and even the Doirlon Hills held farms and
vineyards, but Semaradrid and Meneril did not want to trust their
soldiers’ bellies to uncertain forage if there was another way. As for
Rand, he did not want Illian ravaged any more than could not be avoided.

He did not really press anyone. Sunamon assured him the wagons were
being assembled, and he had long since learned his lesson about telling
Rand one thing and doing another. Supplies were being gathered all
across Tear, despite Weiramon’s grimaces of impatience with the whole
notion and Torean’s sweaty mutters about the expense. The important
thing, though, was that the plan he had given them was going forward—and
would be seen to be going forward.

Leavetaking involved more grandiose prattle and elaborate bows while he
rewound the shoufa around his head and took up the Dragon Scepter
again, with halfhearted invitations to stay for a banquet and equally
insincere offers to attend him to his departure if he could not remain
to eat the feast they would have prepared. Tairen or Cairhienin, they
avoided the company of the Dragon Reborn as much as they safely could
without losing his favor, while pretending that they did no such thing.
Most especially they wanted to be elsewhere when he channeled. They did
escort him to the entrance and a few steps outside, of course, but
Sunamon sighed audibly when he left them, and Rand heard Torean actually
giggling in relief.

The Aiel chiefs went with Rand silently, and the Maidens outside joined
Sulin and the other three in making a ring around the six men as they
started toward the greenstriped tent. This time there were only a few
cheers, and the chiefs said nothing. They had
said almost as little back in the pavilion. When Rand commented on it,
Dhearic said, “These wetlanders do not want to hear us.” He was a husky
man, within a finger width of Rand’s height, with a big nose and paler
streaks prominent in his golden hair. His blue eyes were filled with
contempt. “They hear only the wind.”

“Did they tell you of those who rebel against you?” Erim asked. Taller
than Dhearic, he had a pugnacious jaw and almost as much white as red in
his hair.

“They did,” Rand said, and Han frowned at him.

“If you are sending these Tairens after their own kind, it is a mistake.
Even if they could be trusted, I do not think they could do it. Send the
spears. One clan would be enough and more.”

Rand shook his head. “Darlin and his rebels can wait. Sammael is what’s
important.”

“Then let us go to Illian now,” Jheran said. “Forget these wetlanders,
Rand al’Thor. Already there are nearly two hundred thousand spears
gathered here. We can destroy the Illianers before Weiramon Saniago and
Semaradrid Maravin can be halfway there.”

For a moment Rand squeezed his eyes shut. Was everyone going to argue
with him? These were not men who would give way at a frown from the
Dragon Reborn. The Dragon Reborn was only a wetlander prophecy; they
followed He Who Comes With the Dawn, the Car’a’carn, and as he had
long since grown tired of hearing, even the Car’a’carn was not a king.
“I want your word to stay here until Mat tells you to move. A promise
from each of you.”

“We will stay, Rand al’Thor.” Bruan’s deceptively mild voice had a tight
edge. The others’ agreements came in harder voices, but they came.

“But it is wasting time,” Han added, twisting his mouth. “May I never
know shade if it is not.” Jheran and Erim nodded.

Rand had not expected them to give in so quickly. “Now and then you have
to waste time to save it,” he said, and Han snorted.

Back at the greenstriped tent the Thunder Walkers had lifted up the
sides on poles, letting the breeze blow through the shaded interior. Hot
and dry as it was, the Aiel seemed to find it refreshing. Rand did not
think he sweated a drop less than he had in the sun. He pulled off the
shoufa as he settled to the layered rugs with Bruan and the other
chiefs facing him. The Maidens added their number to the Thunder Walkers
around the tent; every so often banter between them drifted in, and
laughter at it. This time Leiran seemed to be getting the better of it;
at least, the Maidens rattled spears against
bucklers at him twice. Rand understood almost none of it.

Thumbing his shortstemmed pipe full of tabac, he passed the goatskin
pouch around for the chiefs to fill their pipes—he had found a small
cask of good Two Rivers leaf in Caemlyn—then channeled his alight while
they sent a Thunder Walker for a burning twig from one of the cookfires.
When all the pipes were lit they settled down to talk, puffing
contentedly.

The conversation lasted fully as long as his discussion with the lords,
not because there was that much to talk about but because Rand had
talked alone with the wetlanders. Aiel were touchy about honor; their
lives were governed by ji’e’toh, honor and obligation, with rules as
complex and odd as their humor. They talked of the Aiel still on their
way down from Cairhien, of when Mat would arrive and of what if anything
should be done about the Shaido. They talked about hunting and women and
whether brandy was as good as oosquai, and about humor. Even patient
Bruan finally spread his hands in surrender and gave up trying to
explain Aiel jokes. What under the Light was funny about a woman
stabbing her husband by accident, whatever the circumstances, or a man
ending up married to the sister of the woman he wanted to marry? Han
grumped and snorted and refused to believe Rand did not understand; he
laughed so hard at the one about the stabbing that he nearly fell over.
The one thing they did not talk about was the coming war against Illian.

When they left, Rand stood squinting at the sun, halfway down toward the
horizon. Han was repeating the story about the stabbing, and the
departing chiefs chuckled over it again. Tapping his pipe out on the
heel of his palm, Rand ground the dottle underfoot in the dust. There
was still time to return to Caemlyn and meet Bashere, but he went back
inside the tent and sat watching the sun sink. As it touched the
horizon, turning red as blood, Enaila and Somara brought him a plate of
mutton stew heaped high enough for two men, a round loaf of bread and a
pitcher of mint tea that had been set in a bucket of water to cool.

“You do not eat enough,” Somara said, trying to smooth his hair before
he moved his head away.

Enaila eyed him. “If you did not avoid Aviendha so, she would see that
you ate.”

“He attracts her interest, then runs from her,” Somara muttered. “You
must attract her again. Why do you not offer to wash her hair?”

“He should not be that forward,” Enaila said firmly. “Asking to brush
her hair will be more than enough. He does not
want her to think him forward.”

Somara sniffed. “She will not think he is forward when he runs from her.
You can be too modest, Rand al’Thor.”

“You do realize that neither of you is my mother, don’t you?”

The two cadin’sorclad women looked at each other in confusion. “Do
you think this is another wetlander joke?” Enaila asked, and Somara
shrugged.

“I do not know. He does not look amused.” She patted Rand on the back.
“I am sure it was a good joke, but you must explain it to us.”

Rand suffered in silence, grinding his teeth, while they watched him
eat. They literally watched every spoonful. Matters became no better
when they left with his plate and Sulin joined him. Sulin had some
blunt, and most improper, advice on how he could reattract Aviendha’s
notice; among the Aiel, it was the sort of thing a firstsister might do
for a firstbrother.

“You must be decently modest in her eyes,” the whitehaired Maiden told
him, “but not so modest she thinks you boring. Ask her to scrape your
back in the sweat tent, but shyly, with your eyes downcast. When you
undress for bed, let yourself dance as if life pleases you, then
apologize when you suddenly realize she is there and put yourself
straight into your blankets. Can you blush?”

A great deal of suffering in silence. The Maidens knew too much, and not
enough.

When they returned to Caemlyn, well after the sun had gone down, Rand
crept into his apartment with his boots in his hands, fumbling his way
through the anteroom into his bedchamber in the dark. Even if he had not
known Aviendha would be there, already on her pallet on the floor by the
wall, he would have felt her presence. In the stillness of the night, he
could hear her breathing. For once it seemed he had managed to wait long
enough for her to fall asleep. He had tried to stop this, but Aviendha
paid him no mind and the Maidens laughed at his “shyness” and “modesty.”
Good things in a man when alone, they agreed, so long as not carried too
far.

He climbed into his bed with a sense of relief that Aviendha was already
asleep—and some disgruntlement that he dared not light a lamp to
wash—and she turned over on her pallet. Very likely she had been awake
all along.

“Sleep well and wake,” was all she said.

Thinking what idiocy it was to feel this sudden contentment because a
woman he wanted to avoid told him good night, he stuffed a goosedown
pillow beneath his head. Aviendha probably
thought this the most marvelous joke; taunting was almost an art among
Aiel, and the nearer it came to bringing blood, the better. Sleep began
to come, and his last conscious thought was that he had a huge joke of
his own, though only he and Mat and Bashere knew it yet. Sammael had no
sense of humor at all, but that great hammer of an army waiting in Tear
was the biggest joke the world had ever seen. With any luck, Sammael
would be dead before he knew he should laugh.

 


