A Pile of Sand 


Egwene’s eyes opened, stared at nothing. For a moment she lay on her
bedding, idly fingering the Great Serpent ring on its thong around her
neck. Wearing it on her hand caused too many odd looks. Easier to fit in
as a student of the Wise Ones if no one thought of her as Aes Sedai.
Which she was not, of course. She was Accepted, yet had pretended to be
Aes Sedai so long, she sometimes almost forgot that she was not.

A bit of early sunlight crept in at the door flap, barely lighting the
tent’s interior. She might as well not have slept at all, and her
temples were throbbing. Since the day Lanfear had nearly killed her and
Aviendha, the day the Forsaken and Moiraine had killed each other, her
head always hurt after a visit to Tel’aran’rhiod, though never enough
to be a real bother. Anyway, back home Nynaeve had taught her something
of herbs, and she had managed to find a few of the right sort here in
Cairhien. Sleepwell root would make her drowsy—or maybe, as weary she
was, it might put her under for hours—but it would clear any vestige of
a headache.

Climbing to her feet, she straightened her twisted sweatsoaked shift
and padded across the layered carpets to the washbasin, a carved crystal
bowl that had probably once held wine punch for some nobleman. In any
case, it held plain water as well as the blueglazed pitcher did, water
that hardly felt cool at all when she splashed it on her face. Her gaze
met her own eyes in the small giltframed mirror
propped against the dark tent wall, and her cheeks crimsoned.

“Well, what did you think would happen?” she whispered. She would not
have thought it possible, but her reflection’s face grew redder.

It had only been a dream, not like Tel’aran’rhiod, where what happened
to you was real when you woke. But she remembered everything, just as if
it had been real. She thought her cheeks might burn right off. Just a
dream, and Gawyn’s dream at that. He had no right to dream about her
like that.

“It was all his doing,” she told her reflection angrily, “not mine! I
had no choice in it!” Her mouth snapped shut ruefully. Trying to hold a
man at fault for his dreams. And talking to a mirror like a goosehead.

Pausing at the door flap, she stooped to peer out. Her low tent stood on
the edge of the Aiel encampment. The gray walls of Cairhien rose some
two miles to the west across the bare hills, with nothing between except
the charred ground where Foregate had once encircled the city. By the
sharp cast to the light, the sun was just peeking over the horizon, yet
Aiel already bustled among the tents.

No early rising for her this morning. After a whole night out of her
body—her cheeks heated again; Light, was she going to go the rest of her
life blushing over a dream? She was very much afraid she might—after
that she could sleep until afternoon. The smell of cooking porridge was
no competition for heavy eyelids.

Wearily she went back to her blankets and collapsed, rubbing her
temples. She was too tired to prepare the sleepwell root, but then, she
thought she was too tired for it to matter. The dull pain always faded
in an hour or so; it would be gone when she woke.

Given everything, it was no surprise that Gawyn filled her dreams.
Sometimes she repeated one of his, though not exactly, of course; in her
versions, certain embarrassing events just did not occur, or at least
were glossed over. Gawyn spent a good deal more time reciting poetry,
and holding her while they watched sunrises and sunsets. He did not
stumble over saying he loved her, either. And he looked as handsome as
he really was. Others were all her own. Tender kisses that lasted
forever. Him kneeling while she cupped his head in her hands. Some made
no sense. Twice, right atop one another, she dreamed of taking him by
the shoulders and trying to turn him to face the other way against his
will. Once he brushed her hands away roughly; the other time, she was
somehow stronger than he. The two blended together hazily. In another he
began swinging a door closed on her, and she
knew if that narrowing gap of light vanished, she was dead.

Dreams tumbled through her head, not all of him, and usually
nightmarish.

Perrin came and stood before her, a wolf lying at his feet, a hawk and a
falcon perched on his shoulders glaring at each other over his head.
Seemingly unaware of them, he kept trying to throw away that axe of his,
until finally he ran, the axe floating through the air, chasing him.
Again Perrin; he turned away from a Tinker and ran, faster and faster
though she called for him to come back. Mat spoke strange words she
almost understood—the Old Tongue, she thought—and two ravens alighted on
his shoulders, claws sinking through his coat into the flesh beneath. He
seemed no more aware of them than Perrin had been of the hawk and
falcon, yet defiance passed across his face, and then grim acceptance.
In another a woman, face shrouded in shadow, beckoned him toward great
danger; Egwene did not know what, only that it was monstrous. Several
concerned Rand, not all bad, but all odd. Elayne, forcing him to his
knees with one hand. Elayne and Min and Aviendha, sitting in a silent
circle around him, each in turn reaching out to lay a hand on him. Him
walking toward a burning mountain, something crunching beneath his
boots. She stirred and whimpered; the crunching things were the seals on
the Dark One’s prison, shattering with his every step. She knew it. She
did not need to see them to know.

Feeding on fear, her dreams became worse. The two strange women she had
been seeing in Tel’aran’rhiod caught her and dragged her before a
table full of hooded women, and when they took off their hoods, every
one was Liandrin, the Black sister who had captured her in Tear. A
hardfaced Seanchan woman handed her a silvery bracelet and necklace
connected by a silvery leash, an a’dam. That made her cry out;
Seanchan had put an a’dam on her once. She would die before letting it
happen again. Rand capered through the streets of Cairhien, laughing as
he blasted buildings and people with lightning and fire, and other men
ran with him, hurling the Power; that awful amnesty of his had been
announced in Cairhien, but surely no man would choose to channel. The
Wise Ones caught her in Tel’aran’rhiod and sold her like an animal in
the lands beyond the Aiel Waste; that was what they did to Cairhienin
they found in the Waste. She stood outside herself, watching her face
melt, her skull crack open, and dimly seen shapes poke at her with hard
sticks. Poke at her. Poke. . . .

She bolted up, gasping, and Cowinde sat back on her heels beside the
bed, head bowed in the cowl of her white woolen robe.

“Forgive me, Aes Sedai. I only meant to wake you
to break the night’s fast.”

“You didn’t have to jab a hole in my ribs,” Egwene muttered, and was
instantly sorry.

Irritation flared in Cowinde’s deep blue eyes, and was snuffed out,
hidden behind the gai’shain mask of compliant acceptance. Sworn to
obey meekly and touch no weapon for a year and a day, gai’shain
accepted whatever happened, whether a rude word, a blow, even a knife in
the heart very likely. Though to an Aiel, killing a gai’shain was the
same as killing a child. There was no excuse; the perpetrator would be
struck down by his own brother or sister. Yet, it was a mask, Egwene was
certain. Gai’shain worked at it doggedly, but they were still Aiel,
and a people less meek Egwene could not imagine. Even one like Cowinde,
who refused to put off the white when her year and a day was done. Her
refusal was an act of stubborn pride and defiance, as much as any man
refusing to retreat from ten enemies. Such tangles the Aiel’s ji’e’toh
got them into.

That was one reason Egwene tried to watch how she spoke to gai’shain,
especially those like Cowinde. They had no way to fight back without
violating everything they believed in. On the other hand, Cowinde had
been a Maiden of the Spear, and would be again if she could ever be
convinced to put off that robe. Forgetting the Power, she could probably
tie Egwene into a knot while honing a spear at the same time.

“I do not want any breakfast,” Egwene told her. “Just go away and let me
sleep.”

“No breakfast?” Amys said, necklaces and bracelets of ivory and silver
and gold clicking as she ducked into the tent. She wore no rings—Aiel
did not—but for the rest she had on enough to do three women with some
to spare. “I thought your appetite at least had recovered fully.”

Bair and Melaine followed her in, each as bedecked with jewelry. The
three were from different clans, but where most other Wise Ones who had
crossed the Dragonwall stayed close to their septs, their tents were
together nearby. They took places on bright, tasseled cushions at the
foot of her bedding, adjusting the dark shawls Aielwomen never seemed to
be without. Those not Far Dareis Mai, anyway. Amys was as whitehaired
as Bair, but where Bair’s grandmotherly face bore deep creases, Amys
looked oddly young, perhaps because of the contrast between hair and
face. She said it had been nearly as pale when she was a child.

Usually Bair or Amys took the lead, but today Melaine, sunhaired and
greeneyed, spoke first. “If you stop eating, you cannot get well. We
had considered letting you come to the next
meeting with the other Aes Sedai—they ask every time when you will
come—”

“And make wetlander fools of themselves every time,” Amys put in acidly.
She was not a sour woman, but the Aes Sedai in Salidar seemed to make
her so. Maybe it was just meeting Aes Sedai. By custom, Wise Ones
avoided them, especially Wise Ones who could channel, like Amys and
Melaine. Besides, they were not pleased that the Aes Sedai had replaced
Nynaeve and Elayne at the meetings. Neither was Egwene. She suspected
the Wise Ones felt they had impressed those two with the seriousness of
Tel’aran’rhiod. By the fragments she heard of the meetings now, the
Aes Sedai were not impressed at all. Very little impressed Aes Sedai.

“But we may have to think again,” Melaine went on calmly. She had been
prickly as a thornbush before her recent marriage, but little seemed to
crack her composure now. “You must not return to the dream until your
body has its full strength back.”

“Your eyes are pinched,” Bair said in a concerned, reedy voice that
matched her face. In many ways she was the hardest of the three, though.
“Did you sleep poorly?”

“How could she otherwise?” Amys asked grumpily. “I tried to look in on
her dreams three times last night, and found nothing. No one can sleep
well if they do not dream.”

Egwene’s mouth went dry in a heartbeat; her tongue clove to the roof of
her mouth. They would have to check on the one night she was not back in
her body in just a few hours.

Melaine frowned. Not at Egwene; at Cowinde, still kneeling with her head
down. “There is a pile of sand near my tent,” she said with something
near her old sharpness. “You will search it grain by grain until you
find one red grain. If it is not the one I seek, you will have to begin
again. Go now.” Cowinde merely bowed until her face touched the colorful
carpets, then scampered out. Looking at Egwene, Melaine smiled
pleasantly. “You seem surprised. If she will not do what is proper on
her own, I will make her decide to do it. Since she claims to serve me
yet, she is still my responsibility.”

Bair’s long hair swung as she shook her head. “It will not work.” She
adjusted her shawl on angular shoulders. Egwene sweated in just her
shift, with the sun not really up yet, but the Aiel were used to far
hotter. “I have beaten Juric and Beira until my arm wearied, but however
many times I tell them to take off the white, they are back in the robes
before sunset.”

“It is an abomination,” Amys muttered. “Since we crossed into the
wetlands, a full quarter of those whose time is
done have refused to return to their septs. They twist ji’e’toh beyond
its meaning.”

That was Rand’s doing. He had revealed to all what only clan chiefs and
Wise Ones had known before, that once all Aiel had refused to touch
weapons or do violence. Now some believed they all properly should be
gai’shain. Others refused to accept Rand as the Car’a’carn because
of it, and still a few each day went to join the Shaido in the mountains
to the north. Some simply threw down their weapons and vanished; no one
knew what came of them. Taken by the bleakness, the Aiel called it. The
strangest part of it to Egwene was that none of the Aiel blamed Rand,
except the Shaido anyway. The Prophecy of Rhuidean said that the
Car’a’carn would take them back and destroy them. Back to what, none
seemed certain, but that he would destroy them, somehow, they accepted
as calmly as Cowinde had begun a task she knew was hopeless.

Right that moment Egwene would not have cared if every Aiel in Cairhien
donned a white robe. Let these Wise Ones even suspect what she had been
up to. . . . She would have dug through a hundred piles of sand,
willingly, but she did not think she would be so lucky. Her punishment
would be much worse. Once Amys had said if she failed to do exactly as
she was told—the World of Dreams being too dangerous, without that
promise—Amys would no longer teach her. No doubt the others would agree;
that was the punishment she feared. Better a thousand piles of sand
under a broiling sun.

“Do not look so shaken,” Bair chuckled. “Amys is not angry at all
wetlanders, certainly not at you, who have become like a daughter of our
tents. It is your sister Aes Sedai. The one called Carlinya suggested we
may be holding you against your will.”

“Suggested?” Amys’ pale eyebrows climbed nearly to her hairline. “The
woman said as much!”

“And learned to guard her tongue better.” Bair laughed, rocking on her
scarlet cushion. “I will wager she did. When we left them, she was still
yelping and trying to get those scarlet puffers out of her dress. A
scarlet puffer,” she confided to Egwene, “looks much like a red adder if
your eye is dull like a wetlander’s, but it is not poisonous. It does
wriggle when confined, though.”

Amys sniffed. “They would have been gone if she thought of them gone.
The woman learns nothing. The Aes Sedai we served in the Age of Legends
could not have been such fools.” But she sounded mollified.

Melaine was chortling quite openly, and Egwene found herself giggling
too. Some Aiel humor was beyond explaining, but
not this. She had only met Carlinya three times, but the image of that
stiff, icily supercilious woman dancing about trying to haul snakes out
of her dress—it was all she could do to keep from laughing out loud.

“At least your humor is in good fettle,” Melaine said. “The head pains
have not come back?”

“My head feels fine,” Egwene lied, and Bair nodded.

“Good. We were worried when they persisted. So long as you refrain from
entering the dream for a while longer, they should stay away. Do not
fear you suffer any ill effect from them; the body uses pain to tell us
to rest.”

That nearly made Egwene laugh again, though not in humor. Aiel ignored
gaping wounds and broken bones because they could not be bothered right
then. “How much longer do I have to stay out?” she asked. She hated
lying to them, but she hated doing nothing even worse. The first ten
days after Lanfear hit her with whatever that had been were bad enough;
then she could not even think without her head splitting. Once she
could, what her mother called “the itchy hands of idleness” had driven
her into Tel’aran’rhiod behind the Wise Ones’ backs. You learned
nothing resting. “The next meeting, you said?”

“Perhaps,” Melaine replied with a shrug. “We will see. But you must eat.
If your desire for food is gone, something is wrong that we do not
know.”

“Oh, I can eat.” The porridge cooking outside did smell good. “I was
just being lazy, I suppose.” Getting up without wincing was a chore; her
head did not like being moved yet. “I thought of some more questions
last night.”

Melaine rolled her eyes in amusement. “Since, you were hurt you ask five
questions for every one you asked before.”

Because she was trying to puzzle things out for herself. She could not
say that, of course, so she just dug a clean shift from one of the small
chests lining the tent wall and exchanged it for her sweaty one.

“Questions are good,” Bair said. “Ask.”

Egwene chose her words carefully. And went on with her dressing,
casually, in the same white algode blouse and bulky wool skirt the
Wise Ones wore. “Is it possible to be pulled into someone’s dream
against your will?”

“Of course not,” Amys said, “not unless your touch is all thumbs.”

But right on top of her, Bair said, “Not unless there is strong emotion
involved. If you try to watch the dream of someone who loves or hates
you, you can be pulled in. Or if you love or hate them. That last is why
we do not dare try to watch Sevanna’s dreams, or even to speak with the
Shaido Wise Ones in their dreams.” It still
surprised Egwene that these women, and the other Wise Ones, all visited
and talked with the Shaido Wise Ones. Wise Ones were supposed to be
above feuds and battles, but she would have thought opposing the
Car’a’carn, vowing to kill him, took the Shaido well beyond that.
“Leaving the dream of someone who hates you, or loves you,” Bair
finished, “is like trying to climb from a deep pit with sheer sides.”

“There is that.” Amys seemed to recover her humor suddenly; she gave
Melaine a sidelong glance. “That is why no dreamwalker ever makes the
mistake of trying to watch her husband’s dreams.” Melaine stared
straight ahead, face darkening. “She does not make it twice anyway,”
Amys added.

Bair grinned, deepening the creases of her face, and very pointedly did
not look at Melaine. “It can be quite a shock, especially if he is angry
with you. If, to choose an example from air, ji’e’toh takes him away
from you, and you, like some silly child, were foolish enough to tell
him he would not go if he loved you.”

“This is running far afield from her question,” a crimsonfaced Melaine
said stiffly. Bair cackled loudly.

Egwene stifled curiosity, and amusement. She made her voice ever so
offhanded. “What if you don’t try to look in?” Melaine gave her a
grateful look, and she felt a twinge of guilt. Not enough that she would
not ask for the whole story later, though. Anything that made Melaine
blush so had to be hilarious.

“I heard of such a thing,” Bair said, “when I was young and just
beginning to learn. Mora, the Wise One of Colrada Hold, trained me, and
she said that if the emotion was very strong, love or hate so great it
left room for nothing else, you could be drawn in merely by letting
yourself be aware of the other’s dream.”

“I have never heard anything like that,” Melaine said. Amys merely
looked doubtful.

“Nor have I from any save Mora,” Bair told them, “but she was a
remarkable woman. It was said she was approaching her three hundredth
year when she died from a bloodsnake’s bite, yet she looked as young as
either of you. I was only a girl, but I remember her well. She knew many
things, and could channel strongly. Other Wise Ones came from every clan
to learn from her. I think love so great, or hate so, is very rare, but
she said this happened to her twice, once with the first man she
married, and once with a rival for her third husband’s interest.”

“Three hundred?” Egwene exclaimed, a soft kneehigh boot halflaced.
Surely even Aes Sedai did not live that long.

“I said that it was said,” Bair replied,
smiling. “Some women age more slowly than others, like Amys here, and
when it is a woman like Mora, tales are born. Someday I will tell you
the story of how Mora moved a mountain. Supposedly, at least.”

“Another day?” Melaine said a touch too politely. Plainly she still
smarted over whatever had happened in Bael’s dream, and over the fact
the others knew. “I heard every tale of Mora when I was a child; I have
them all by heart, I think. If Egwene ever finishes dressing, we must
see her fed.” A gleam in her green eyes said she meant to watch every
bite go down; clearly her suspicions about Egwene’s health had not been
soothed. “And answer the rest of her questions.”

Frantically Egwene fumbled for another. Usually she had a slew of
questions, but the events of the night had left her with just that one.
If she let it remain at that, they might start wondering whether it had
come because she had sneaked off to spy on someone’s dream. Another
question. Not about her own odd dreams. Some of them probably had
meaning, if she could ferret it out. Anaiya claimed Egwene was a
Dreamer, able to foretell the course of future events, and these three
women thought it might be so, but they said she had to learn it from
within. Besides, she was not sure she wanted to discuss her dreams with
anyone. These women already knew more than she really liked about what
went on inside her head. “Ah . . . what about dreamwalkers who aren’t
Wise Ones? I mean, do you ever see other women in Tel’aran’rhiod?”

“Sometimes,” Amys said, “but not often. Without a guide to teach her, a
woman may not realize she does more than have vivid dreams.”

“And of course,” Bair added, “unknowing as she is, the dream may well
kill her before she can learn. . . .”

Safely away from the dangerous topic, Egwene relaxed. She had received
more answer than she could have hoped for. She already knew she loved
Gawyn—Did you, then? a voice whispered. Were you willing to admit
it?—and his dreams certainly indicated he loved her. Though of course,
if men could say things waking they did not mean, they very probably
could dream them. But to have the Wise Ones confirm it, that he loved
her strongly enough to overwhelm anything she. . . .

No. That was to be dealt with later. She did not even have an idea where
in the world he was. The important thing now was that she knew the
danger. She would be able to recognize Gawyn’s dreams the next time, and
avoid them. If you really want to, that small voice whispered. She
hoped the Wise Ones took the color rising in her cheeks for a healthy
glow. She wished she knew what her own dreams
meant. If they meant anything.

 

Yawning, Elayne climbed onto a stone stoop so she could see over the
heads of the crowd. There were no soldiers in Salidar today, but people
packed the street and hung out of windows, waiting in hushed
anticipation, all staring at the Little Tower. The shuffling of feet and
an occasional cough from the rising dust were the only sounds. Despite
the early morning heat, people barely moved beyond stirring a fan or hat
to make a little breeze.

Leane stood in the gap between two thatchroofed houses, on the arm of a
tall, hardfaced man Elayne had never seen before. Very much on his arm.
No doubt one of Leane’s agents. Most Aes Sedai eyesandears were women,
but Leane’s all seemed to be men. She kept them largely out of sight,
but Elayne had noticed her once or twice patting an unfamiliar cheek,
smiling up at a pair of strange eyes. She had no idea how Leane did it.
Elayne was sure if she tried those Domani tricks, the fellow would think
she had promised a good more than she intended, but these men took a pat
and a smile from Leane and went trotting away as happy as if handed a
chest of gold.

Elsewhere in the crowd, Elayne spotted Birgitte, wisely keeping away
from her this morning. For a change that horrid Areina was nowhere to be
seen. The night had been well beyond hectic, and Elayne had not gone to
bed until the sky was already beginning to lighten toward gray. In
truth, she would, not have gone at all if Birgitte had not told
Ashmanaille she thought Elayne looked unsteady. Not a matter of how she
looked at all, of course; the bond with a Warder ran both ways. So what
if she had been a little tired? There had been plenty of work to do, and
she could still channel more strongly than half the Aes Sedai in
Salidar. That bond told her that Birgitte had not slept yet, not her!
Elayne sent off to bed like a novice, while Birgitte carried the injured
and cleared away wreckage all night!

A glance showed Leane alone now, squeezing into the crowd to find a good
place to watch. There was no sign of the tall man.

A yawning, blearyeyed Nynaeve climbed up beside Elayne, glaring down a
leathervested woodcutter who would have gotten there before her.
Muttering to himself, the fellow shoved back into the crowd. Elayne
wished Nynaeve would not do that. The yawn, not the glare. Her own jaw
cracked in mimicry before she could stop it. There was some excuse for
Birgitte—some, maybe; a little—but none for Nynaeve. Theodrin could not
possibly expect her to have stayed awake after
last night, and Elayne had heard Anaiya tell her to go to bed, yet there
she was when Elayne came in, balancing herself on the stool despite its
now crooked leg, head nodding every two minutes, muttering about showing
Theodrin, showing everyone.

The a’dam bracelet conveyed fear to Elayne, of course, but something
that might have been amusement as well. Moghedien had spent the night
hiding under her bed, untouched and, because she was well hidden,
without picking up one single stick of rubbish. She had even gotten a
good night’s sleep once the first commotion died down. It seemed that
old saw about the Dark One’s luck held sometimes.

Nynaeve began another yawn, and Elayne jerked her eyes away. Even so,
she had to shove her fist against her mouth in a not very successful
attempt to avoid imitation. The shuffling feet and coughs took on an
impatient sound.

The Sitters were still inside the Little Tower with Tarna, but the Red’s
roan gelding already stood in the street before the former inn, and a
dozen Warders were holding their horses’ bridles, their colorshifting
cloaks making them uneasy to look at, an escort of honor for the first
miles of Tarna’s journey back to Tar Valon. The crowd waited for more
than the Tower envoy’s departure, though most looked as worn out as
Elayne felt.

“You’d think she was . . . was. . . .” Nynaeve gaped hard behind her
hand.

“Oh, blood and ashes,” Elayne muttered, or tried to. Everything after
“oh” came out a strangled croak around the fist stuffed in her mouth.
Lini said remarks like that were the sign of a slow mind and a dull
wit—right before washing your mouth out—but sometimes nothing else could
sum up your feelings in as few words. She would have said more, but had
no chance.

“Why don’t they give her a procession?” Nynaeve growled. “I do not see
why they have to give the woman all this todo.” And she yawned again.
Again!

“Because she is Aes Sedai, sleepyhead,” Siuan said, joining them. “Two
sleepyheads,” she added with a glance at Elayne. “You’ll catch minnows
if you keep doing that.” Elayne snapped her mouth shut and gave the
woman her coldest stare. As usual, it slid off like rain from a glazed
roof tile. “Tarna is Aes Sedai, my girls,” Siuan went on, peering toward
the waiting horses. Or maybe it was the clean cart that had been pulled
in front of the stone building that had her eye. “An Aes Sedai is Aes
Sedai, and nothing changes that.” Nynaeve gave her a look she did not
see.

Elayne was glad Nynaeve held her tongue; the
obvious reply would have been hurtful. “What was the toll last night?”

Siuan answered without looking away from where Tarna would appear.
“Seven dead, here in the village. Nearly a hundred in the soldiers’
camps. All those swords and axes and the like lying about, and no one to
channel them down. There are sisters out there now, Healing.”

“Lord Gareth?” Elayne asked, a touch anxiously. The man might be cold
toward her now, but once he had had a warm smile for a child and a
pocket that always held hard candies.

Siuan snorted so hard that people turned around to look. “That one,” she
muttered. “A lionfish would break its teeth on the man.”

“You seem in a fine temper this morning,” Nynaeve said. “Have you
finally learned what the Tower’s message is? Gareth Bryne asked you to
marry him? Somebody died and left you—?”

Elayne tried not to look at Nynaeve; even the sound of a yawn made her
jaws creak.

Siuan gave Nynaeve a level look, but for once Nynaeve met it just as
flatly, if a bit wateryeyed.

“If you’ve learned something,” Elayne broke in before they could stare
one another senseless, “tell us.”

“A woman who claims to be Aes Sedai when she isn’t,” Siuan murmured as
though voicing an idle thought, “is neckdeep in a boiling kettle, true
enough, but if she’s claimed a particular Ajah, that Ajah has first call
on her. Has Myrelle ever told you about the woman she caught claiming to
be a Green in Chachin? A former novice who failed her test for Accepted.
Ask her, some time when she has an hour or two. It will take that long
to tell. The fool girl probably wished she had been stilled before
Myrelle was done, stilled and her head cut off as well.”

For some reason the threat had no more effect than the glare had on
Nynaeve, not even a quiver. Perhaps they were both just too tired. “You
tell me what you know,” Elayne said in a low voice, “or the next time
we’re alone, I will teach you to sit up straight, and you can run
whining to Sheriam if you want.” Siuan’s eyes narrowed, and suddenly
Elayne yelped, clapping a hand to her hip.

Siuan drew back the hand that had delivered the pinch without any try at
stealth. “I don’t take well to threats, girl. You know as well as I do
what Elaida said; you saw it before anyone here.”

“Come back; all is forgiven?” Nynaeve said incredulously.

“More or less. With a load of fish guts about the Tower needing to be
whole more now than ever, and a bit of slippery
eeling about no one needing to fear except those who ‘have placed
themselves in true rebellion.’ The Light knows what that means. I
don’t.”

“Why are they keeping it secret?” Elayne demanded. “They can’t possibly
think anyone will go back to Elaida. All they need do is trot out
Logain.” Siuan said nothing, only frowned at the waiting Warders.

“I still don’t see why they’re asking for more time,” Nynaeve muttered.
“They know what they have to do.” Siuan kept silent, but Nynaeve’s
eyebrows rose slowly. “You didn’t know their answer.”

“I do now,” Siuan clipped the words, and said something under her breath
about “weakkneed fools.” Elayne agreed silently.

Suddenly the front door of the onetime inn opened. Half a dozen Sitters
came out in their fringed shawls, one from each Ajah, then Tarna,
followed by the rest. If the waiting folk had expected some sort of
ceremony, they were sorely disappointed. Climbing into her saddle, Tarna
ran her eyes slowly over the Sitters, glanced at the crowd with an
unreadable face, then heeled the gelding to a walk. Her encircling
escort of Warders moved with her. A concerned buzz, like the sound of
disturbed bees, rose from the onlookers as they gave way.

The murmuring lasted until Tarna passed from sight, out of the village,
and Romanda climbed up onto the cart, smoothly hitching her
yellowfringed shawl into place. Dead silence fell. By tradition the
eldest Sitter made pronouncements from the Hall. Romanda did not move
like an old woman, of course, and her face was as ageless as any, yet
even streaks of gray hair marked considerable age on an Aes Sedai, and
the bun gathered at the nape of her neck was pale gray without a trace
of anything darker. Elayne wondered how old she was, but asking an Aes
Sedai’s age was about the rudest thing possible.

Romanda wove simple flows of Air to make her high soprano voice carry;
it came to Elayne as if she had been facetoface with the woman. “Many
of you have been worried these last few days, but needlessly. Had Tarna
Sedai not come to us, we would have sent missives to the White Tower
ourselves. After all, we can hardly be said to be hiding here.” She
paused as if to give the crowd time to laugh, but they merely stared at
her, and she adjusted her shawl. “Our purpose here has not changed. We
seek truth and justice, to do what is right . . .”

“Right for who?” Nynaeve murmured.

“. . . and we shall neither flag nor fail. Go about your tasks as you
have, assured that you remain sheltered beneath our hands, now and after
our assured return to our proper places in the
White Tower. The Light shine upon you all. The Light shine upon all of
us.”

The murmuring rose again, and the crowd began milling slowly, as Romanda
climbed down. Siuan’s face might have been carved from stone; her lips
were pinched bloodless. Elayne wanted to ask questions, but Nynaeve
hopped off the stoop and began pushing toward the threestory stone
building. Elayne followed quickly. Last night Nynaeve had been ready to
toss out what they had learned with never a care; it had to be presented
carefully if it was to be any use in swaying the Hall. And it certainly
seemed they did need swaying. Romanda’s announcement had been a
wagonload of nothing. It had certainly upset Siuan.

Wriggling between two hefty fellows who were glaring at Nynaeve’s
back—she had stepped on toes to get by—Elayne glanced over her
shoulder and caught Siuan watching her and Nynaeve. For just a moment;
as soon as the woman realized she had been seen, she pretended to spot
someone in the crowd and jumped down as if going to them. Frowning,
Elayne hurried on. Was Siuan upset, or was she not? How much of her
irritation and ignorance were really pretense? Nynaeve’s notion of
running off to Caemlyn—Elayne was not sure she had given it up yet—was
worse than silly, but she herself was looking forward to Ebou Dar, to
doing something of real use. All these secrets and suspicions were an
itch she could not reach. If only Nynaeve did not put her foot in it.

She caught up to Nynaeve just as the other woman caught Sheriam, near
the cart Romanda had spoken from. Morvrin was there too, and Carlinya,
all three in their shawls. All the Aes Sedai wore shawls this morning.
Carlinya’s short hair, worked into a cap of dark curls, was the only
sign of their near disaster in Tel’aran’rhiod.

“We need to speak to you alone,” Nynaeve told Sheriam. “In private.”

Elayne sighed. Not the best beginning, but not the worst, either.

Sheriam studied the two of them for a moment, then glanced at Morvrin
and Carlinya and said, “Very well. Inside.”

When they turned, Romanda was between them and the door, a solidly
handsome, darkeyed woman with her yellowfringed shawl, all flowers and
vines except for the Flame of Tar Valon, high between her shoulders.
Ignoring Nynaeve, she smiled warmly at Elayne, one of those smiles
Elayne had come to expect, and dread, from Aes Sedai. For Sheriam and
Carlinya and Morvrin, though, her face was very different. She stared at
them, expressionless, head erect, until they dipped slight curtsies and
murmured, “By your leave, Sitter.” Only then did
she move aside, and even then she sniffed loudly.

The common run of folk never noticed, of course, but Elayne had caught
snippets among the Aes Sedai about Sheriam and her little council. Some
thought they only saw to the daytoday running of Salidar, freeing the
Hall for more important matters. Some knew they had influence with the
Hall, but how much varied according to who spoke. Romanda was one who
believed they had entirely too much; worse, they had two Blues and no
Yellow in their number. Elayne felt her eyes as she followed the others
through the doorway.

Sheriam led them to one of the private chambers just off the former
common room, with beetlechewed paneling and a paperstrewn table
against one wall. Her eyebrows lifted when Nynaeve asked them to ward
against eavesdropping, but she wove the ward around the inside of the
room without comment. Remembering Nynaeve’s excursion, Elayne checked to
be sure both windows were tightly shut.

“I expect no less than news Rand al’Thor is on his way here,” Morvrin
said dryly. A quick glance passed between the other two Aes Sedai.
Elayne stifled indignation; they really did think she and Nynaeve were
holding back secrets about Rand. Them and their secrets!

“Not that,” Nynaeve said, “but something as important, in a different
way.” And out tumbled the story of their trip to Ebou Dar and finding
the bowl ter’angreal. Not in proper order, and not mentioning the
Tower, but all the essential points were there.

“Are you certain this bowl is a ter’angreal?” Sheriam asked when
Nynaeve ran down. “It can affect the weather?”

“Yes, Aes Sedai,” Elayne answered simply. Simple was best, to begin.
Morvrin grunted; the woman doubted everything.

Sheriam nodded, shifting her shawl. “Then you have done well. We will
send a letter to Merilille.” Merilille Ceandevin was the Gray sister
sent to convince the queen in Ebou Dar to support Salidar. “We will need
all the details from you.”

“She’ll never find it,” Nynaeve burst out before Elayne could open her
mouth. “Elayne and I can.” Aes Sedai eyes chilled.

“It probably would be impossible for her,” Elayne put in hastily. “We
saw where the bowl is, and it will be difficult for us. But at least
we know what we saw. Describing it in a letter just won’t be the
same.”

“Ebou Dar is no place for Accepted,” Carlinya said coldly.

Morvrin’s tone was a little more kindly, if
still gruff. “We must all do what we can do best, child. Do you think
Edesina or Afara or Guisin wanted to go to Tarabon? What can they do to
bring order to that unquiet land? But we must try, so they went. Kiruna
and Bera are probably in the Spine of the World right this minute, on
their way to search for Rand al’Thor in the Aiel Waste because we
thought—only thought—when we sent them that he might be there. That we
were right makes their journey no less futile now, with him out of the
Waste. We all do what we can, what we must. You two are Accepted.
Accepted do not go running off to Ebou Dar or anywhere else. What you
two can and must do is remain here and study. Were you full sisters, I
would still say keep you here. No one has made the sort of discoveries
you have, the sheer number in so short a time, in a hundred years.”

Nynaeve being Nynaeve, she ignored what she did not want to hear and
focused on Carlinya. “We have done very well on our own, thank you. I
doubt Ebou Dar can be as bad as Tanchico.”

Elayne did not think the woman knew she had a death grip on her braid.
Would Nynaeve never learn that simple civility sometimes won what
honesty would surely lose? “I understand your concerns, Aes Sedai,”
Elayne said, “but however immodest it might be, the truth is that I am
better qualified to locate a ter’angreal than anyone else in Salidar.
And Nynaeve and I know better where to look than we could ever put on
paper. If you send us to Merilille Sedai, under her guidance I am sure
we could locate it in short order. A few days to Ebou Dar by riverboat
and a few days back, with a few days under Merilille Sedai’s eye in Ebou
Dar.” It was an effort not to draw a deep breath. “In the meantime, you
could send a message to one of Siuan’s eyesandears in Caemlyn, so it
will be there when Merana Sedai and the embassy arrive.”

“Why under the Light should we do that?” Morvrin rumbled.

“I thought Nynaeve told you, Aes Sedai. I’m not sure, but I think the
bowl needs a man channeling too, to make it work.”

That caused a small commotion, of course. Carlinya gasped, and Morvrin
muttered to herself, and Sheriam’s mouth actually fell open. Nynaeve
gaped as well, but just for an instant; Elayne was sure she covered
before the others noticed. They were too stunned to see very much. The
thing was, it was a lie, pure and simple. Simple was the key. Supposedly
the greatest achievements in the Age of Legends had been done by men and
women channeling together, probably linked. Very likely there were
ter’angreal that needed a man to work. In any case, if she could not
work the bowl alone, certainly no one in Salidar
could. Except Nynaeve, maybe. If it required Rand, they could not pass
up the chance to do something about the weather, and by the time she
“discovered” that a circle of women could manage the bowl, the Aes Sedai
in Salidar would have tied themselves to Rand too tightly to break
loose.

“That is all very well,” Sheriam said at last, “but it does not change
the fact that you are Accepted. We will send a letter to Merilille.
There has been some talk about the two of you—”

“Talk,” Nynaeve snapped. “That is all you do, you and the Hall! Talk!
Elayne and I can find this ter’angreal, but you would rather prattle
like laying hens.” Words tumbled over each other coming out of her. She
kept such a steady strain on her braid, Elayne halfexpected to see it
come loose in her hand. “You sit here, hoping Thom and Juilin and the
others will come back and tell you the Whitecloaks aren’t going to fall
on us like a house, when they might come back with Whitecloaks on their
heels. You sit, poking at the problem of Elaida instead of doing what
you said you would, fumbling over Rand. Do you know how you stand toward
him yet? Do you, with your embassy on its way to Caemlyn? Do you know
why you sit and talk? I do! You’re afraid. Afraid of the Tower divided,
afraid of Rand, the Forsaken, the Black Ajah. Last night Anaiya let slip
that you had a plan ready in case one of the Forsaken attacked. All
those circles linking, right on top of the bubble of evil—do you finally
believe in that?—but all mismatched and most with more novices than Aes
Sedai. Because only a few Aes Sedai knew beforehand. You think the Black
Ajah’s right here in Salidar. You were afraid your plan might get back
to Sammael, or one of the others. You don’t trust each other. You don’t
trust anybody! Is that why you won’t send us to Ebou Dar? Do you think
we’re Black Ajah, or we’ll run off to Rand, or . . . or . . . !” She
trailed off in furious splutters and panting. She had hardly drawn
breath through the entire tirade.

Elayne’s first wincing instinct was to smooth it over somehow, though
how was a question she could not begin to answer. As easy to smooth over
a mountain range. It was the Aes Sedai who made her forget to worry
whether Nynaeve had managed to shatter everything. Those expressionless
faces, those eyes that seemed able to see through stone, should have
conveyed nothing at all. To her, they did convey something. There was
none of the cold anger that should have flowed toward anyone foolish
enough to rant at Aes Sedai. This was a covering up, and the only thing
to hide was truth, a truth they did not want to admit themselves. They
were afraid.

“Are you quite done?” Carlinya asked in a voice
that should have frozen the sun in its flight.

 

Elayne sneezed, banging her head on the side of the overturned cauldron.
The smell of burned soup filled her nose. The midmorning sun had heated
the dark interior of the big cookpot until it felt as if it still sat on
a fire; sweat dripped off her. No, it poured off. Dropping the coarse
pumice stone, she backed out on her knees and glared at the woman next
to her. Or rather, at the half of a woman sticking out of a slightly
smaller kettle lying on its side. She poked Nynaeve in the hip, and
smiled grimly when the poke produced the bang of a head against iron and
a yelp. Nynaeve backed out with a baleful stare, not hindered at all by
a yawn she stifled behind a grimy hand. Elayne gave her no chance to
speak.

“You just had to blow up, didn’t you? You couldn’t hold on to your
temper for five minutes. We had everything in our hands, and you had to
kick us in the ankles.”

“They wouldn’t have let us go to Ebou Dar anyway,” Nynaeve muttered.
“And I didn’t do all the kicking of ankles.” She shoved her chin up in a
ridiculous fashion, so she had to look down her nose to see Elayne. “
‘Aes Sedai rule their fear,’ ” she said in tones that might have done
for berating a drunken layabout who had staggered into your horse, “
‘they do not allow it to rule them. Lead, and we will follow gladly, but
you must lead, not cower, hoping that something will make your troubles
vanish.’ ”

Elayne’s cheeks heated. She had not looked anything like that. And she
certainly had not sounded like that. “Well, perhaps we both overstepped
good sense, but—” She cut off at the sound of a footstep.

“So the Aes Sedai’s golden children have decided to take a rest, have
they?” Faolain’s smile was as far from friendly as it was possible for a
smile to be. “I am not here for the joy of it, you know. I meant to
spend today working on something of my own, something not terribly
inferior to what you golden children have done, I think. Instead, I must
watch Accepted scrub pots for their sins. Watch so you don’t sneak off
like the wretched novices the pair of you should be. Now back to work. I
can’t leave until you’re done, and I do not intend to spend the whole
day here.”

The dark, curlyhaired woman was like Theodrin, something more than
Accepted, but less than Aes Sedai. As Elayne and Nynaeve would have
been, if Nynaeve had not behaved liked a steppedon cat. Nynaeve and
herself, Elayne amended reluctantly. Sheriam had told them as much
in the middle of telling them just how long they
would be working their “free” hours in the kitchens, the dirtiest work
the cooks could find. But no Ebou Dar in any case; that had been made
clear, too. A letter would be on its way to Merilille by noon if not
already.

“I . . . am sorry,” Nynaeve said, and Elayne blinked at her. Apologies
from Nynaeve were snow in midsummer.

“I’m sorry, too, Nynaeve.”

“Yes you are,” Faolain told them. “As sorry as I’ve seen. Now back to
work! Before I find reason to send you to Tiana when you’re done here.”

With a rueful glance at Nynaeve, Elayne crawled back into the cauldron,
attacking the charred soup with the pumice stone as though attacking
Faolain. Stone dust and bits of blackburned vegetable flew. No, not
Faolain. The Aes Sedai, sitting when they should be acting. She was
going to get to Ebou Dar, she was going to find that ter’angreal,
and she was going to use it to tie Sheriam and all the rest of them to
Rand. On their knees! Her sneeze very nearly took her shoes off.

 

Sheriam turned from where she had been watching the young women through
a crack in the fence, and began walking up the narrow alley with its
fitful crop of withered weeds and stubble. “I regret that.” Considering
Nynaeve’s words, and her tone—and Elayne’s, the wretched child!—she
added, “Somewhat.”

Carlinya sneered. She was very good at that. “Do you want to tell
Accepted what fewer than two dozen Aes Sedai know?” Her mouth clicked
shut at a sharp look from Sheriam.

“There are ears where we least expect them,” Sheriam said softly.

“Those girls are right about one thing,” Morvrin said. “Al’Thor turns my
bowels to water. What options are left to us with him?”

Sheriam was not sure they had not long since run out of options.

 


