Journey to Salidar 


Egwene washed her face. Twice. Then she found her saddlebags and filled
them. Her ivory comb and brush and mirror went in, and her sewing box—a
small, finely gilded casket that likely had held some lady’s jewels
once—plus a white cake of roseperfumed soap and clean stockings and
shifts and handkerchiefs and a host of things, until the leather sides
bulged and she could hardly buckle the flaps down. Several dresses and
cloaks, an Aiel shawl, remained to make a bundle, which she tied neatly
with a cord. That done, she looked around for anything else she might
want to take. It was all hers. Even the tent had been given to her, but
that was certainly too bulky, as were the carpets and cushions. Her
crystal washbasin was beautiful, and far too heavy. The same for the
chests, though several had beautiful work on the strapping and lovely
carving.

Only then, thinking about the chests of all things, did she realize she
was trying to put off the hardest bit of getting ready. “Courage,” she
said dryly. “Heart of an Aiel.”

It turned out to be quite possible to put on stockings without sitting
down, so long as you did not mind hopping around. Stout shoes followed,
good if she had to walk far, and a silk shift, white and soft. Then the
dark green riding dress, with its narrow divided skirts. Unfortunately
that fit quite snugly over the hips, enough to remind her,
unnecessarily, that she would not enjoy sitting for a while.

There was no point going outside. Bair and Amys
were probably in their own tents, but she had no intention of risking
the chance one of them might see her do this. It would be like slapping
them. If it worked, that was. If not, she had a very long ride ahead of
her.

Nervously rubbing her fingers over her palms, she embraced saidar,
letting it fill her. And shifted her feet. Saidar made you more aware
of everything, including your own body, which she would just as soon
have missed right then. Trying something new, something no one had ever
tried before that she knew, should have been done slowly and carefully,
but for once she wanted to be rid of the Source. She channeled briskly,
flows of Spirit, woven just so.

The air shimmered in the middle of the tent along her weave, cloaking
the other side in mistiness. If she was right, she had just created a
place where the interior of her tent was so similar to its reflection in
Tel’aran’rhiod that there was no difference at all right there. One
was the other. But there was only one way to be sure.

Tossing the saddlebags over her shoulder, she took the bundle under one
arm and stepped through the weave, then let go of saidar.

She was in Tel’aran’rhiod. All it took to tell her was that the lamps
that had been lit were no longer burning, yet there was a sort of light.
Things moved slightly between one glance and the next, the washbasin, a
chest. She was in Tel’aran’rhiod in the flesh. It felt no different
than when she came in a dream.

She ducked outside. A threequarter moon shone down on tents where no
fire burned and no one moved, on a Cairhien that seemed oddly distant
and clouded in shadow. All that remained was the problem of actually
getting to Salidar. She had thought about that. A great deal depended on
whether she had as much control in the flesh as when she was part of the
World of Dreams.

Fixing in her mind what she would find, she walked around the tent—and
smiled. There stood Bela, the short shaggy mare she had ridden out of
the Two Rivers a lifetime ago. Only a dreamBela, but the stout mare
tossed her nose and whickered at sight of her.

Egwene dropped her burdens and flung her arms around the horse’s head.
“I’m glad to see you again, too,” she whispered. That dark liquid eye
looking at her was Bela’s, reflection or no.

Bela wore the highcantled saddle she had imagined, too. Comfortable for
long travel normally, but not soft. Egwene eyed the thing askance,
wondering how it would look padded; then she had a thought. You could
change anything in Tel’aran’rhiod if you knew
how, even yourself. If she had enough control to make Bela while in the
flesh. . . . She concentrated on herself.

With a smile she fastened the saddlebags and bundle behind the saddle
and climbed up herself, settling quite comfortably. “It isn’t cheating,”
she told the mare. “They would not expect me to ride all the way to
Salidar like that.” Well, come to think of it, maybe they would. Even
so, Aiel heart or no Aiel heart, there were limits. Turning Bela, she
heeled the mare’s ribs gently. “I need to be as quick as I can, so you
will need to run like the wind.”

Before she had time to chuckle at the image that came to mind of plump
Bela running like the wind, the mare was doing so. The landscape
blurred, streaking by. For a moment Egwene clung to the pommel of the
saddle, her mouth hanging open. It was as if Bela’s every trotting step
carried them miles. With the first she had an instant to realize they
were on the riverbank below the city, with ships floating out on the
dark waters amid streaks of moonlight, and even as she tried to jerk at
the reins, to stop Bela running headlong into the river, another step
took them into thicketed hills.

Egwene threw back her head and laughed. This was marvelous! Except for
the blurring, there was little real sensation of speed; her hair hardly
had time to stream back in the wind of that rush before it was gone,
only to come again a moment later. Bela’s gait felt the same plodding
trot she recalled, but the sudden leap of everything around her was
exhilarating, one moment a village street, moondark and silent, the
next a country road winding through hills, the next a meadow with hay
standing almost to Bela’s shoulders. Egwene only paused now and again to
orient herself—no trouble at all with that marvelous map in her head,
the one the woman with Siuan’s name had made—and otherwise let Bela
trot. Villages and towns appeared and vanished in a blur, great
cities—one she thought sure was Caemlyn, walls silvery white in the
night—and once, in forested hills, the head and shoulders of a huge
statue rearing out of the earth, a remnant of some land lost in history,
appearing so suddenly at Bela’s side with a weathered grimace that
Egwene nearly screamed, only it was gone before she could. The moon did
not move at all between leaps, and hardly any as they sped along. A day
or two to reach Salidar? That was what Sheriam had said. The Wise Ones
were right. Everyone had believed for so long that Aes Sedai knew
everything that Aes Sedai believed it, too. She was {#page_615
.calibre14}going to prove them wrong tonight, but it was not likely they
would take any real notice of her proof. They knew.

After a time, when she was sure she was somewhere well into Altara, she
began letting Bela make smaller jumps, reining her in more often, even
riding normally for a bit, especially if there was a village nearby.
Sometimes a nightshrouded inn had a sign that named the village, the
Marella Inn or the Ionin Spring Inn, and moonlight added to the odd
sense of light in Tel’aran’rhiod made reading them easy. Bit by bit
she became absolutely certain where she was in relation to Salidar and
began to take still smaller leaps, then none at all, only letting Bela
trot normally through forest where tall trees had killed most of the
undergrowth and drought most of the rest.

Still, she was surprised when a considerable village appeared suddenly,
silent and dark in the moonlight. It had to be the right place, though.

At the edge of the thatchroofed stone houses, she dismounted and took
down her belongings. It was late, but people might still be about in the
waking world. No need to startle them by popping out of the air. If an
Aes Sedai saw that and mistook what she was, she might have no chance to
face the Hall.

“You did run like the wind,” she murmured, hugging Bela a last time. “I
wish I could take you with me.” A useless fancy, of course. What was
made in Tel’aran’rhiod could exist only there. This was not really
Bela, after all. Even so, she felt a twinge of regret as she turned her
back—she would not stop imagining Bela; let her exist as long as she
could—and wove her shimmering curtain of Spirit. Head high, she stepped
through, ready to face whatever came with her Aiel heart.

One step she took, and came up short with a sharp, wideeyed, “Oh!” The
changes she had made in Tel’aran’rhiod existed in the real world no
more than Bela did. The flames returned with a rush, and with them, it
was almost as though Sorilea spoke to her. If you take what you did to
meet your toh and make it so it might as well never have happened, how
have you met toh? Remember your Aiel heart, girl.

Yes. She would remember. She was here to do battle whether the Aes Sedai
knew it or not, ready to fight for the right to be Aes Sedai, ready to
face. . . . Light, what?

There were people in the streets, a few moving between houses where
lighted windows made golden pools. Walking a little gingerly, Egwene
approached a wiry woman with a white apron and a harried expression.
“Excuse me. My name is Egwene al’Vere. I am
Accepted”—the woman gave her riding dress a sharp look—“and I’ve just
arrived. Can you direct me to Sheriam Sedai? I need to find her.” Very
likely Sheriam was asleep already, but if she was, Egwene intended to
wake her. She had been told to come as soon as possible, and Sheriam was
going to know she was here.

“Everyone comes to me,” the woman muttered. “Does anybody do anything
for themselves? No, they want Nildra to do it. You Accepted are the
worst of the lot. Well, I don’t have all night. Follow me, if you’re
coming. If not, you can find her for yourself.” Nildra strode off
without so much as a backward glance.

Egwene followed silently. If she opened her mouth, she was afraid she
would tell the woman what she thought, and that would hardly be the way
to start her stay in Salidar. However short it might be. She wished her
Aiel heart and her Two Rivers head could get together.

The distance was not long, up the hardpacked dirt street a little way
and around the corner into another, narrower street. Sounds of laughter
came from some of the houses. Nildra stopped at one that was silent,
though light shone in the windows of the front room.

Pausing just long enough to knock on the door, she went in before there
was any answer. Her curtsy was perfectly proper, if quick, and she spoke
in a somewhat more respectful tone than before. “Aes Sedai, this girl
says her name is Egwene, and she—” She got out no more.

They were all there, the seven from the Heart of the Stone, not a one
looking ready for bed, though all but the young woman with Siuan’s name
wore robes. From the way their chairs were pulled together, it seemed
that Egwene had walked in on a discussion. Sheriam was the first to leap
from her chair, waving Nildra out. “Light, child! Already?”

No one paid any mind at all to Nildra’s curtsy, or her putupon sniff on
going.

“We never expected,” Anaiya said, taking Egwene’s arms with a warm
smile. “Not so soon. Welcome, child. Welcome.”

“Were there any ill effects?” Morvrin demanded. She had not risen, and
neither had Carlinya or the young Aes Sedai, but Morvrin leaned forward
intently. All the others’ robes were silk of various hues, sometimes
brocaded or embroidered; hers was plain brown wool, though it did look
soft and finely woven. “Do you feel any changes from the experience? We
had precious little to go on. Frankly, I am surprised it worked.”

“We shall have to see it work to know how well it does.” Beonin paused
for a sip of tea, then set cup and saucer down on a ricketylegged
side table. The cup and saucer did not match,
but then, none of the furniture matched, and most looked as lopsided as
the small table. “If there are ill effects, she can be Healed, and they
will be done with.”

Egwene stepped away from Anaiya quickly, setting her belongings beside
the door. “No, I’m quite well. Really, I am.” She could have hesitated;
Anaiya might well have Healed her without asking. That would have been
cheating, though.

“She appears healthy enough,” Carlinya said coolly. Her hair really was
short, dark curls barely covering her ears; it had not been just
something she did in Tel’aran’rhiod. She wore white, of course; even
the embroidery was white. “We can have one of the Yellows check her
thoroughly later, to be sure, if need be.”

“Let her get her feet on the ground,” Myrelle said with a laugh. Lush
flowers in yellow and red so covered her robe that hardly any green
showed. “She’s just come a thousand leagues in a night. In hours.”

“You’ve no time to let her find her feet,” the young Aes Sedai put in
firmly. She truly looked out of place in that gathering, in her yellow
dress with the skirts slashed with blue and the deep round neckline
blueembroidered. That, and being the only one it was possible to put an
age to. “Come morning, the Hall will swarm around her. If she’s not
ready, Romanda will gut her like a fat carp.”

Egwene gaped. That voice registered more than the words. “You’re Siuan
Sanche. No, it’s impossible!”

“Oh, it is possible, all right,” Anaiya said dryly, giving the young
woman a longsuffering look.

“Siuan is Aes Sedai again.” Myrelle’s look was more exasperated than
longsuffering.

It had to be true—they had said so—but Egwene could hardly credit it
even when Sheriam explained. Nynaeve had Healed stilling? Being
stilled was why Siuan looked no older than Nynaeve? Siuan had always
been a leatherfaced taskmistress, and leatherhearted as well, not this
pretty, creamycheeked woman with an almost delicate mouth.

Egwene watched Siuan while Sheriam talked. Those blue eyes were the
same, though. How could she have seen that gaze, strong enough to drive
nails, and not known? Well, the face was answer enough there. But Siuan
had always been strong in the Power, too. When a girl first began, it
required testing to tell how strong she would be, but not once she had
gained that strength. Egwene knew enough now to weigh another woman in
moments. Sheriam was clearly the strongest woman in the room aside
from Egwene herself, and Myrelle next, though it
was hard to be certain; the rest all seemed close, except for Siuan. She
was weakest by a fair margin.

“This truly is Nynaeve’s most remarkable discovery,” Myrelle said. “The
Yellows are taking what she has done and making their own marvels, but
she began it. Sit down, child. It is too long a story to hear standing.”

“I prefer to stand, thank you.” Egwene eyed the straightbacked chair
with a wooden seat that Myrelle indicated, and barely repressed a
shudder. “What about Elayne? Is she all right, too? I want to hear all
about her and Nynaeve both.” Nynaeve’s most remarkable discovery? That
implied more than one. It seemed she had fallen behind with the Wise
Ones; she was going to have to run hard to catch up. At least she
thought now that she would be allowed to. They would hardly have greeted
her so warmly if she was going to be sent away in disgrace. She had not
curtsied or called anyone Aes Sedai once—more because she had had no
chance than for any other reason; defiance was no way to face Aes
Sedai—yet no one had called her down. Maybe they did not know after all.
But then, why?

“Except for a little trouble she and Nynaeve have with pots at the
moment,” Sheriam began, but Siuan broke in harshly.

“Why are you all jabbering like brainless girls? It’s too late to be
afraid of going on. It has begun; you began it. Either you finish, or
Romanda will hang the lot of you in the sun to dry right alongside this
girl, and Delana and Faiselle and the rest of the Hall will be there
with her to stretch you out.”

Sheriam and Myrelle turned to face her almost together. All the Aes
Sedai did, Morvrin and Carlinya twisting in their chairs. Cold Aes Sedai
eyes stared from cold Aes Sedai faces.

At first Siuan met those stares with a challenging stare of her own, as
Aes Sedai as they if seemingly much younger. Then her head fell a
little, and spots of color entered her cheeks. She rose from her chair,
eyes down. “I spoke in haste,” she muttered softly. Those eyes did not
change—maybe the Aes Sedai failed to notice, but Egwene saw—yet that was
still not like Siuan.

Egwene also saw that she did not know what was going on here at all. Not
just Siuan Sanche meek as milk; if she was pushed to it, anyway. That
least of all. What had they begun? Why would she be hung out to dry if
they stopped?

The Aes Sedai exchanged looks as unreadable as Aes Sedai could make
them. Morvrin was the first to nod.

“You have been summoned for a very special
reason, Egwene,” Sheriam said solemnly.

Egwene’s heart began to beat faster. They did not know about her. They
did not. But what?

“You,” Sheriam said, “are to be the next Amyrlin Seat.”

 


