The Feast of Lights 


The people dancing in the streets of Cairhien exasperated Perrin; making
a way through was near to impossible. A linedance snaked past him
behind a bignosed fellow with a flute and no shirt; last in line
pranced a round little woman who laughed merrily and took a hand from
the waist of the man in front of her to try pulling Perrin in behind. He
shook his head, and either his yellow eyes frightened her or his face
looked as grim as he felt, because she swallowed her mirth and let the
line lead her on, glancing back over her shoulder at him until the crowd
hid her. A graying woman, still handsome, with slashes of color halfway
to the waist of her dark silk dress, flung slender arms around Perrin’s
neck and stretched up her mouth hungrily toward his. She looked startled
when he picked her up gently under the arms and set her down out of his
way. A group of men and women his own age, capering to tambours, bumped
into him, laughing gaily and plucking at his coat. They ignored his
headshaking until finally he pushed one of the men away hard and
snarled a leadwolf growl at the others. Laughter vanished in gaping
astonishment for a moment, but they were roaring again, and trying to
imitate his growl, before they frolicked away into the throng.

It was the first day of the Feast of Lights, the shortest day of the
year, the last day of the year, and the city celebrated in ways Perrin
could never have imagined. There would be dancing in the Two Rivers, but
this . . . ! The Cairhienin seemed determined to
make up for a year of staid reserve in the two days of the feast.
Propriety had gone down the well and with it every barrier between
common and noble, in public at least. Perspiring women in plain rough
wool seized sweaty men in colorstriped dark silks and pulled them into
the dance; men in carters’ coats and stablemen’s vests whirled women
whose dresses bore slashes of color sometimes to the waist. Barechested
men poured wine over themselves and anyone else close to them.
Apparently any man could kiss any woman, any woman kiss any man, and
they were doing so with great abandon everywhere Perrin looked. He tried
not to look too closely. Some of the noblewomen with their hair in
elaborate towers of curls were bare to the waist beneath light cloaks
that they made little effort to keep closed. Among the commoners, few
women who had abandoned blouses bothered with any sort of covering
beyond their hair, and that seldom near long enough; they flung wine
over themselves and everyone else as wildly as any man. Boisterous
laughter warred with a thousand different tunes from flutes and drums
and horns, zithers and bitterns and dulcimers.

The Women’s Circle in Emond’s Field would have had a screaming fit, and
the Village Council swallowed their tongues in apoplexy, but the
depraved goingson were only a small burr added to Perrin’s irritation.
A few hours, Nandera had said, but Rand had been gone six days now. Min
had either gone with him or was staying with the Aiel. And no one seemed
to know anything. Except for the one called Sorilea, the Wise Ones were
evasive as any Aes Sedai when Perrin managed to corner one; Sorilea told
him bluntly to tend to his wife and keep his nose out of affairs that
did not concern wetlanders. How Sorilea knew of the trouble between
Faile and him, he had no idea, but he did not care. He could feel Rand’s
need like an itch everywhere under his skin, stronger every day. He was
coming from Rand’s school now, a last resort, but everyone there was as
caught in drink, dance and debauchery as the rest of Cairhien. A woman
named Idrien had been named to him as the head of the school, but after
he managed, with some difficulty and no small embarrassment, to
interrupt her kissing a man young enough to be her son, long enough to
ask his question, all she could say was that maybe a man named Fel might
know something, and Fel turned out to be dancing with three young women
who could have been his granddaughters. With all three at once. Fel
hardly seemed able to remember his own name, perhaps not surprising in
the circumstances. Burn Rand! He had gone off without a word, when he
knew about Min’s viewing, knew he was going to need Perrin desperately.
Even the Aes Sedai had grown disgusted,
apparently. Just that morning Perrin had learned they were three days on
their way back to Tar Valon, having said there was no further point in
remaining. What was Rand up to? That itch had Perrin wanting to bite
something.

When he reached the Sun Palace, every lamp was lit and candles burned
everywhere one could be placed; the corridors glittered like gems in the
sun. In the Two Rivers, too, every house would be illuminated, with
every available lamp and candle, until sunrise the day after tomorrow.
Most of the palace servants were out in the streets, and the few who
remained seemed to laugh and dance and sing as much as work. Even here
some women were bare to the waist, girls barely old enough to have their
hair braided in the Two Rivers and grayhaired grandmothers. The Aiel in
the corridors looked disgusted when they noticed, which in truth they
did not seem to do very often. The Maidens in particular appeared
furious, though Perrin suspected that had nothing to do with Cairhienin
women exposing themselves; the Maidens had been more and more cats
lashing their tails every day since Rand went.

Perrin strode through the hallways openly for a change. He almost wanted
Berelain to pounce on him. The image that flashed in his mind was of him
seizing the scruff of her neck in his teeth and shaking her until she
was ready to run away with her tail curled under. Perhaps fortunately,
he reached his rooms without seeing a hair of her.

Faile almost looked up from the stones board when he entered; Perrin was
sure she did. The scent of jealousy still wafted from her, but it was
not the strongest; anger was sharper, if not at its worst, and most
powerful was a flat, dull odor he identified as disappointment. Why was
she disappointed in him? Why would she not speak to him? One word even
hinting at everything returning to how it had been, and he would be on
his knees to accept blame for anything she wanted to pile on his head.
But she only placed a black stone and murmured, “It is your turn, Loial.
Loial?”

Loial’s ears were twitching uneasily, and his long eyebrows drooped. The
Ogier might have no sense of smell to speak of—well, no better than
Faile’s, say—but he could sense mood where no human would see anything.
When Perrin and Faile were in the same room, Loial looked as though he
wanted to cry. Now he just sighed like wind blowing through a cavern and
put a white stone where he would begin trapping a large part of Faile’s
stones if she did not notice. She probably would; she and Loial were
evenly matched, far better players than Perrin.

Sulin came to the bedchamber door with a pillow in her arms, frowning
at Faile and at Perrin. Her scent reminded
Perrin of a shewolf who had taken about all of cubs nipping her tail in
play that she could stand. She also smelled worried. And afraid, oddly.
Though why a whitehaired serving woman smelling afraid should be
odd—even one with Sulin’s scarred leathery face—Perrin did not
understand.

Scooping up a book with a leather cover worked in gilt, Perrin sank into
a chair and flung the volume open. Yet he did not read, or even see the
book well enough to know which one he had picked up. He inhaled deeply,
filtering out everything but Faile. Disappointment, anger, jealousy, and
underneath that, underneath even the faint fresh herbal smell of her
soap, was her. Perrin breathed her in hungrily. One word; that was all
she had to say.

When a knock sounded at the door, Sulin stalked out of the bedroom,
flouncing her redandwhite skirts and glaring at Perrin and Faile and
Loial as if wondering why one of them had not answered it. She sneered
quite openly when she saw Dobraine—she seemed to do that quite often
since Rand left—but then took a deep breath as if steeling herself and
visibly forced an almost cringing mildness. Her deep curtsy might have
done to greet a king who enjoyed being his own headsman, and there she
remained, her face nearly on the floor. Suddenly she began trembling.
The smell of her anger melted, and even the worry was overwhelmed by a
scent like thousands of hairfine, needlesharp splinters. Perrin had
smelled shame from her before, but this time he would have said she
might die from it. He smelled the bitter sweetness women gave off when
they wept from emotion.

Of course, Dobraine never even glanced at her. Instead his deepset eyes
studied Perrin, his face sober, even somber, below his shaved and
powdered forehead. Dobraine did not smell of drink even faintly, and he
hardly looked as if he had been dancing. The one time Perrin had met him
before, he had thought the man smelled wary; not afraid, but as though
he was padding through tangled woods full of poisonous snakes. That
smell was ten times stronger today. “Grace favor you, Lord Aybara,”
Dobraine said, inclining his head. “May I speak with you alone?”

Perrin set the book on the floor beside his chair and motioned to one
opposite him. “The Light shine on you, Lord Dobraine.” If the man wanted
to be formal, Perrin could be formal. But there were limits. “Whatever
you have to say, my wife can hear. I keep no secrets from her. And Loial
is my friend.”

He could feel Faile’s gaze on him. The sudden scent of her nearly
overpowered him. For some reason, he associated that with her loving
him; when she was at her tenderest, or when her
kisses were fiercest, that aroma almost overwhelmed him. He thought
about telling Dobraine to go—and Loial and Sulin too; if Faile smelled
that way, surely he could make it all right somehow—but the Cairhien was
already sitting.

“A man who has a wife he can trust, Lord Aybara, is favored of grace
beyond wealth.” Still, Dobraine eyed her a moment before going on.
“Today Cairhien has suffered two misfortunes. This morning, Lord
Maringil was found dead in his bed, of poison it appears. And only a
short while later High Lord Meilan apparently fell victim to a footpad’s
blade in the streets. Most unusual during the Feast of Lights.”

“Why are you telling me this?” Perrin said slowly.

Dobraine spread his hands. “You are the Lord Dragon’s friend, and he is
not here.” He hesitated, and when he went on, it seemed he was forcing
words. “Last night, Colavaere dined with guests from a number of the
smaller Houses. Daganred, Chuliandred, Annallin, Osiellin, others. Small
by themselves, but numerous. The subject was alliance with House Saighan
and support for Colavaere for the Sun Throne. She made little effort to
hide the meeting.” Again he paused, weighing Perrin with his eyes.
Whatever Dobraine saw, he seemed to think it called for more
explanation. “This is most strange, because both Maringil and Meilan
wanted the throne, and either would have had her smothered with her own
pillows had they learned of it.”

At last Perrin understood, though not why the man needed to beat around
the bush so. He wished Faile would speak up; she was so much better at
this sort of thing than he. From the corner of his eye he could see her,
head bent over the stones board, and watching him from the corner of her
eye. “If you think Colavaere committed a crime, Lord Dobraine, you
should go to . . . to Rhuarc.” He had been going to say Berelain, but
even so, the thread of jealousy increased slightly in Faile’s scent.

“The Aiel savage?” Dobraine snorted. “Better to go to Berelain, and that
not much. I admit the Mayener wench knows how to order a city, but she
thinks every day is the Feast of Lights. Colavaere will have her sliced
and cooked with peppers. You are the Dragon Reborn’s friend. Colavaere—”
This time he stopped because he finally realized that Berelain had
entered the room without knocking, something long and narrow and wrapped
in a blanket cradled in her arms.

Perrin had heard the door latch click, and at the sight of her, with
half her bosom exposed, fury almost washed everything else out of his
head. The woman came here, to carry on her flirting in front of his
wife? Rage drove him to his feet, and his
hands slapped together with a thunder crack. “Out! Out, woman! Out, now!
Or I will throw you out, and I will throw you so far you bounce twice!”

Berelain gave such a start at his first shout that she dropped her
burden and took a wideeyed step back, although she did not leave. By
the last word, Perrin realized that everyone was looking at him.
Dobraine’s face appeared impassive, but his scent was all astonishment,
like one tall stone spike in the middle of a flat plain. Loial’s ears
were as stiffly erect as that spike, and his jaw on his chest. And
Faile, wearing that cool smile. . . . Perrin did not understand at all.
He expected the waves of jealousy, with Berelain right there in the
room, but why did she smell just as strongly of hurt?

Suddenly Perrin saw what Berelain had dropped. The blanket had fallen
away to reveal Rand’s sword and the belt with the Dragon buckle. Would
Rand have left that behind? Perrin liked to think things through; when
you were hasty, you could hurt people without meaning to. But that sword
lying there was like a strike of lightning. Fast was foolish, and
sloppy, in forge work, but Perrin’s hackles rose, and a growl rumbled
deep in his throat.

“They have taken him!” Sulin wailed suddenly, shockingly. Head thrown
back, eyes squeezed shut, she moaned at the ceiling, and the sound of
her voice was enough to make Perrin shiver. “The Aes Sedai have taken my
firstbrother!” Her cheeks glistened with tears.

“Be calm, good woman,” Berelain said firmly. “Go into the next room, and
be calm.” To Perrin and Dobraine she added, “We cannot allow her to
spread word—”

“You do not recognize me,” Sulin broke in savagely, “wearing this dress
and with my hair grown longer. Speak of me again as though I am not
here, and I will give you what I hear Rhuarc gave you in the Stone of
Tear, and should have since.”

Perrin exchanged confused glances with Dobraine and Loial, even with
Faile before her eyes jerked away. Berelain, on the other hand, went
pale and crimson by turns; her scent was pure mortification, shriveled
and small.

Striding to the door, Sulin had flung it open before anyone could move;
Dobraine at least started to, but a yellowhaired young Maiden passing
by saw her and grinned in amusement. “Wipe your face, Luaine,” Sulin
snapped. Her hands seemed to be moving, hidden from the room by her
body. Luaine’s grin was indeed wiped away. “Tell Nandera she must come
here at once. And Rhuarc. And bring me cadin’sor, and scissors to cut
my hair properly. Run, woman! Are you Far
Dareis Mai or Shae’en M’taal?” The yellowhaired Maiden darted away,
and Sulin turned back to the room with a satisfied nod, slamming the
door. Faile was gaping.

“Grace favors us,” Dobraine growled. “She told the Aiel nothing; the
woman must be mad. We can decide what to tell them after we tie and gag
her.” He moved as if to do it, even pulling a dark green scarf from his
coat pocket, but Perrin caught his arm.

“She is Aiel, Dobraine,” Berelain said. “A Maiden of the Spear. I do not
understand the livery.” Surprisingly, it was Berelain who received a
warning glare from Sulin.

Perrin exhaled slowly. And he had wanted to protect the whitehaired old
woman from Dobraine. The Cairhienin looked at him questioningly, raised
the hand holding the scarf a little; apparently he still favored binding
and gagging. Perrin stepped between the two and picked up Rand’s sword.

“I want to be sure.” Suddenly he realized his steps had put him very
close to Berelain. She glanced at Sulin uneasily and moved closer to
him, as though seeking protection, but her scent was determined, not
uneasy; she smelled like a hunter. “I don’t like leaping to
conclusions,” he said, walking over to stand beside Faile’s chair. Not
quickly; just a man going to stand by his wife. “This sword isn’t really
proof of anything.” Faile rose and glided around the table to peer at
the board past Loial’s shoulder; well, closer to his elbow, really.
Berelain glided too, toward Perrin; she was still casting fearful looks
at Sulin without the slightest fear scent, and her hand came up as if to
take his arm. He moved after Faile, trying to appear casual. “Rand said
three Aes Sedai could not harm him, if he was watchful.” Faile sailed
around the other side of the table back to her chair. “I understand he
never let more than three near him.” Berelain followed with piteous
looks for him and plainly fearful ones for Sulin. “I was told only three
came here the day he left.” He went after Faile, a little faster. She
popped out of her chair again, returning to Loial’s side. Loial had his
head in his hands and was moaning, softly for an Ogier. Berelain stalked
after Perrin with her already big eyes wide, the very picture of a woman
seeking protection. Light, she smelled determined!

Whirling to face her, Perrin shoved stiffened fingers against her chest
hard enough to make her squeak. “Stop right there!” Abruptly he realized
exactly where his fingers were nestled and snatched them away as if
burned. He managed to keep his voice hard, though. “Stay right there!”
He backed away from her, glaring hard enough to crack a stone wall. He
could understand why Faile’s jealousy was a
cloud filling his nose, but why, why, why did she smell even more hurt
than before?

“Few men can make me obey,” Berelain laughed softly, “but I think you
are one.” Her face and tone—and more importantly, her scent—became
serious. “I went searching in the Lord Dragon’s apartments because I was
afraid. Everyone knew the Aes Sedai had come to escort him to Tar Valon,
and I could not understand why they had given up. I myself received no
fewer than ten visits from various sisters, advising me on what I should
do when he returned to the Tower with them. They seemed very certain.”
She hesitated, and though she did not look at Faile, Perrin got the
impression she was considering whether to say something in front of her.
In front of Dobraine as well, but more Faile. The hunter smell returned.
“I received the strong impression that I should return to Mayene, and
that if I did not, I might well be escorted there.”

Sulin muttered under her breath, but Perrin’s ears heard clearly.
“Rhuarc is a fool. If she was truly his daughter, he would have no time
to do anything else for having to beat her.”

“Ten?” Dobraine said. “I had only one visit. I thought she was
disappointed when I made it clear I had sworn fealty to the Lord Dragon.
But whether ten or one, Colavaere is the key. She knows as well as any
that the Lord Dragon means the Sun Throne for Elayne Trakand.” He
grimaced. “Elayne Damodred, she should be. Taringail should have
insisted Morgase marry into Damodred instead of marrying into Trakand
himself; she needed him enough to have done it. Well, Elayne Trakand or
Elayne Damodred, she has as strong a claim to the throne as any,
stronger than Colavaere’s by far, yet I am convinced Colavaere had
Maringil and Meilan killed to make her own way to the throne safe. She
would never have dared had she thought the Lord Dragon would ever
return.”

“So that is why.” A small, vexed frown creased Berelain’s forehead. “I
have proof she had a servant put poison in Maringil’s wine—she was
careless, and I brought two good thiefcatchers with me—but I did not
know why.” She bowed her head slightly, acknowledging Dobraine’s
admiring look. “She will hang for that. If there is any way to get the
Lord Dragon back. If not, I fear we must all look to how we are to stay
alive.”

Perrin’s hand tightened on the boarhide scabbard. “I will get him back,”
he growled. Dannil and the other Two Rivers men could not be more than
halfway to Cairhien yet, burdened with the wagons. But there were the
wolves. “If I have to go alone, I’ll get him back.”

“Not alone,” Loial said, as grimly as stone grinding. “Never alone while
I am here, Perrin.” Abruptly his ears shifted in
embarrassment; he always seemed embarrassed when anyone saw him being
brave. “After all, my book will not end very well if Rand is imprisoned
in the Tower. And I can hardly write of his rescue if I am not there.”

“You will not go alone, Ogier,” Dobraine said. “I can have five hundred
men I trust by tomorrow. What we can do against six Aes Sedai, I do not
know, but I keep my oaths.” Looking at Sulin, he fingered the scarf that
he still held. “But how far can we trust the savages?”

“How far can we trust treekillers?” Sorilea demanded in a voice leathery
and tough as she herself, striding in without knocking. A grimsmelling
Rhuarc was with her, and Amys, her tooyouthful face cool as any Aes
Sedai’s in that incongruous frame of white hair, and Nandera, reeking of
murderous fury and carrying a bundle of gray and brown and green.

“You know?” Perrin said incredulously.

Nandera tossed the bundle at Sulin. “Past time you saw your toh as
met. Almost four and a half weeks, an entire month and a half. Even
gai’shain say your pride is too strong.” The two women vanished into
the bedchamber.

A smell of irritation had wafted from Faile as soon as Perrin spoke.
“Maiden handtalk,” she murmured, too softly for any ear but his to hear.
He gave her a grateful look, but she appeared to be concentrating on the
stones board. Why was she not taking part? She gave good advice, and he
would be grateful for any she was willing to offer. She placed a stone
and frowned at Loial, who was intent on Perrin and the others.

Trying not to sigh, Perrin said flatly, “I don’t care who trusts who.
Rhuarc, are you willing to send your Aiel against Aes Sedai? Six of
them. A hundred thousand Aiel would give them pause though.” The number
coming out of his mouth made him blink—ten thousand men was a not
inconsiderable army—but those were the numbers Rand had spoken of, and
what Perrin had seen of the Aiel camp in the hills made him believe. To
his surprise, Rhuarc smelled hesitant.

“So many are not possible,” the clan chief said slowly, and paused
before going on. “Runners came this morning. The Shaido are moving south
from Kinslayer’s Dagger in force, into the heart of Cairhien. I may have
enough to stop them—they do not all seem to be coming—but if I take so
many spears out of this land, all that we have done will have to be
redone. At the least, the Shaido will have looted this city long before
we return. Who can say how far they will have gone, into other lands
even, and how many carried off claiming they are gai’shain.” A strong
odor of contempt came from him at that last, but
Perrin understood none of it. What did it matter how much land had to be
reconquered—or even how many people died, though that thought came
reluctantly, painfully—stacked against Rand, the Dragon Reborn, being
taken prisoner to Tar Valon?

Sorilea had been studying Perrin. Wise Ones’ eyes often made Perrin feel
as Aes Sedai’s did, that he had been weighed to the ounce and measured
to the inch. Sorilea made him feel he had been disassembled like a
broken plow, every pin hefted and examined to see whether it should be
mended or replaced. “Tell him everything, Rhuarc,” she said sharply.

Amys laid a hand on Rhuarc’s arm. “He has the right to know, shade of my
heart. He is Rand al’Thor’s nearbrother.” Her voice was gentle, her
smell quite firm.

Rhuarc gave the Wise Ones a hard look, and Dobraine a contemptuous one.
Finally he straightened to his full height. “I can take only Maidens and
siswai’aman.” By his tone and his smell, he would rather lose an arm
than speak those words. “Too many of the others will not dance the
spears with Aes Sedai.” Dobraine’s lip curled in contempt.

“How many Cairhienin will fight Aes Sedai?” Perrin asked quietly. “Six
Aes Sedai, and we have nothing but steel.” How many of the Maidens and
these siswhatever could Rhuarc gather? No matter; there were always the
wolves. How many wolves would die?

The curl went out of Dobraine’s lip. “I will, Lord Aybara,” he said
stiffly. “I and my five hundred, if there were sixty Aes Sedai.”

Even Sorilea’s cackle was leathery. “Do not fear the Aes Sedai,
treekiller.” Suddenly, shockingly, a tiny flame danced in the air before
her. She could channel!

She let the flame vanish as they began planning, but it remained in
Perrin’s thoughts. Small, flickering weakly, somehow it had seemed a
declaration of war stronger than trumpets, war to the knife.

 

“If you cooperate,” Galina said conversationally, “life will be more
pleasant for you.”

The girl stared back sullenly and shifted on her stool, a little
painfully yet. She was sweating freely, though her coat was off. The
tent must be hot; Galina sometimes forgot temperature altogether. Not
for the first time, she wondered about this Min, or Elmindreda, or
whatever her real name was. The first time Galina had seen her, she had
been garbed like a boy, keeping company with Nynaeve al’Meara and Egwene
al’Vere. And Elayne Trakand as well, but the
other two were tied to al’Thor. The second time, Elmindreda had been the
sort of woman Galina hated, frilly and sighing, and as near under the
personal protection of Siuan Sanche as made no difference. How Elaida
had ever been fool enough to allow her to leave the Tower, Galina could
not imagine. What knowledge was in this girl’s head? Perhaps Elaida
would not have her right away. Properly used in the Tower, the girl
might enable Galina to net Elaida like a swallow. For all of Alviarin,
Elaida had become one of those strong, capable Amyrlins who took every
rein firmly into their own hands; caging her would surely weaken
Alviarin. Properly used right now . . . .

A change in the flows she had been sensing made Galina sit up straight.
“I will talk with you again when you have had time for thought, Min.
Think carefully on how many tears a man is worth.”

Once outside, Galina snapped at the stocky Warder on guard. “Watch her
properly, this time.” Carilo had not been on guard during the incident
last night, but there was too much mollycoddling of the Gaidin. If they
had to exist at all, they should be treated as soldiers and no more.

Ignoring his bow, she glided away from the tent, looking for Gawyn. That
young man had been withdrawn since al’Thor was captured, and much too
quiet. She was not about to have everything ruined by him trying to
avenge his mother. But she saw Gawyn sitting his horse on the edge of
the camp, talking to a knot of those boys who called themselves the
Younglings.

They had stopped early of necessity today, and the afternoon sun made
long shadows of the tents and wagons beside the road. Rolling plains and
low hills surrounded the camp, with only a few scattered thickets in
sight, most sparse and small. Thirtythree Aes Sedai added to the
original six, with their servants—and Warders; nine were Green, only
thirteen Red, and the rest White, Alviarin’s former Ajah—made a
considerable encampment even without counting Gawyn and his soldiers. A
number of sisters were standing outside or looking out of their tents,
having felt what Galina had. The focus of attention was seven Aes Sedai,
six seated on stools around a brassbound chest set where it could catch
whatever strength remained in the sun. The seventh was Erian; she had
not been far from the chest since al’Thor was put back into it last
night. He had been allowed out once they were away from Cairhien, but
Galina suspected Erian was going to want him to make the rest of the
journey inside that box.

The Green rounded on her as soon as she came close. Erian was quite
beautiful usually, her face a pale exquisite
oval, but now crimson suffused her cheeks, as it had almost constantly
since the night before, and her lovely dark eyes were redrimmed. “He
did try to break through the shield again, Galina.” Wrath mingled with
contempt for the man’s foolishness, making her voice thick and harsh.
“He must be punished again. I do want to be the one to punish him.”

Galina hesitated. Much better would be to punish Min; that would quell
al’Thor. He had certainly raged enough seeing her punished for her
outburst last night, which had in turn come from seeing him punished.
The entire incident had begun because al’Thor discovered Min was in the
camp, after one of the Warders carelessly allowed her to walk in the
darkness instead of keeping her closely confined in her tent. Who would
have thought that al’Thor, shielded and surrounded, would have gone mad
that way? Not just trying to break through the shield, but killing a
Warder with his bare hands and severely wounding another with the dead
man’s sword, to such an extent that the second died in the Healing. All
that in the moments required for the sisters to overcome their shock and
bind him with the Power.

For herself, Galina would have gathered the other Red sisters and
gentled al’Thor days ago. Since that was prohibited, she would just as
soon have delivered him to the Tower unmarked, so long as he was
reasonably polite. Even now efficiency was what she cared for, and what
would be efficient would be to bring Min out here and let him hear her
wail and weep again, let him know that he was the cause of her pain. But
by chance both the dead Warders belonged to Erian. Most of the sisters
would feel she had the right. And Galina herself wanted the dolllike
Illianer Green to rid herself of her rage as soon as possible. Much
better to travel the rest of the way able to admire that porcelain face
unruffled.

Galina nodded.

 

Rand blinked when light suddenly flooded into the chest. He could not
help flinching too; he knew what was coming. Lews Therin fell silent,
and still. Rand held the Void by a fingernail, yet he was all too aware
of cramped muscles groaning as he was pulled upright. He clamped his
teeth shut and tried not to squint against what seemed the brightness of
noon. The air seemed wonderfully fresh; his sodden shirt clung to him,
dripping with sweat. No cords held him, but he could not have moved a
step for his life. If not held up with the
Power, he would have fallen over. Until he saw how low the sun sat, he
had no idea how long he had been in there with his head between his
knees, in a puddle of his own sweat.

The sun got only a notice, though. Involuntarily his eyes went to Erian
even before she placed herself squarely in front of him. The short
slender woman peered up at him, dark eyes full of fury, and he almost
flinched again. Unlike last night, she said nothing, only began.

The first unseen blow struck him across the shoulders, the second the
chest, third the backs of his thighs. The Void shattered. Air. Only Air.
It sounded softer, that way. Each blow felt a whip, though, wielded by
an arm stronger than any man’s. Before she began, bruised welts
crisscrossed him from shoulders to knees. He had been aware of them, not
so dimly as he could have wished; even inside the Void he had wanted to
weep. After the Void went, he wanted to howl.

Instead he clenched his jaws. Sometimes a grunt escaped through his
teeth, and when one did, Erian’s efforts redoubled as if she wanted
more. He refused to give it. He could not stop a shudder at each stroke
of that invisible lash, but no more than that would he give her. He
fixed his eyes on hers, refused to look away, to blink.

I killed my Ilyena, Lews Therin moaned every time a blow landed.

Rand had his own litany. Pain flailing his chest. This comes of
trusting Aes Sedai. Fire striping his back. Never again; not an inch;
not a hair. Like a razor’s slash. This comes of trusting Aes Sedai.

They thought they could break him. They thought they could make him
crawl to Elaida! He made himself do the hardest thing he had ever done
in his life. He smiled. Certainly it touched nothing but his lips, yet
he looked Erian in the eye, and he smiled. Her eyes widened, and she
hissed. The scourges began to come from everywhere at once.

The world was pain and fire. He could not see, only feel. Agony and
inferno. For some reason he was aware of his hands trembling
uncontrollably in their invisible bonds, but he concentrated on holding
his teeth shut. This comes of—Won’t cry out! I will not cry ou—! Never
again; not an in—! Not an inch; not a hair! Never agai—! I will not!
Never a—! Never! Never! NEVER!

First there was a perception of breathing. Air, gulped hungrily through
his nostrils. He throbbed—he was a pulsing flame—but the beating had
stopped. It almost came as a shock, realizing that. The end of something
that part of him had been convinced would never end. He tasted blood,
and realized that his jaws hurt almost as much as the rest of him. Good.
He had not cried out. The muscles of his face
were locked in a knotted cramp; it would take effort to open his mouth
even if he wanted to.

Sight was the last thing to return, and when it did, he wondered whether
pain was making him hallucinate. Among the Aes Sedai stood a group of
Wise Ones, shifting their shawls and staring at the Aes Sedai with all
the arrogance they could muster. When he decided they were real—unless
he was fantasizing Galina talking to one of his fancies—his first
thought was rescue. Somehow the Wise Ones had . . . It was impossible,
but somehow they would. . . . Then he recognized the woman speaking with
Galina.

Sevanna strolled toward him, a smile on that plump greedy mouth. Those
pale green eyes peered up at him from that beautiful face framed by hair
like spun gold. Rand would as soon have looked into the face of a rabid
wolf. There was something odd in the way she stood, leaning forward
slightly, shoulders back. She was watching his eyes. Abruptly, as much
as he hurt, he wanted to laugh; he would have, if he could have been
sure what sound would emerge if he opened his mouth. Here he was, a
prisoner, beaten within an inch of his life, welts burning, sweat
stinging, and a woman who hated him, he was sure, who probably blamed
him for the death of her lover, was trying to see whether he would look
down the front of her blouse!

Slowly she ran a fingernail across his throat—in fact, as far around his
neck as she could reach—as though imagining cutting off his head.
Fitting, considering Couladin’s fate. “I have seen him,” she said with a
satisfied sigh and a small shiver of pleasure. “You have kept your part
of the bargain, and I have kept mine.”

The Aes Sedai doubled him again then, shoved him back down into the
chest with his head between his knees, crouching in that thin puddle of
sweat. The lid closed, and darkness enclosed him.

Only then did he work his jaws until his mouth could open and let out a
long shuddering breath. He had not been sure whether he might not
whimper even now. Light, but he was on fire!

What was Sevanna doing there? What bargain? No. All very well to know
there was some bargain between the Tower and the Shaido, but worrying
about it was for later. Now was for Min. He had to get free. They had
hurt her. That thought was so grim it almost dulled the pain. Almost.

Assuming the Void again was a labor of wading through a swamp of agony,
but at last he was surrounded by emptiness, reaching out toward
saidin. . . . Only to find Lews Therin there as soon as he was, like
two sets of hands fumbling to grasp something only one could hold.

Burn you! Rand growled in his head. Burn you!
If you’d only work with me just once instead of against me!

You work with me! Lews Therin snapped back.

Rand nearly lost the Void in shock. There could be no mistake this time;
Lews Therin had heard him and answered. We could work together, Lews
Therin. He did not want to work with the man; he wanted him out of his
head. But there was Min. And how many days yet to Tar Valon. Somehow he
was sure if they got him that far, there would be no more chances. Ever.

An uncertain, apprehensive laugh answered him. Then, Together? Another
laugh, and this mad as a loon. Together. Whoever you are. And voice
and presence vanished.

Rand shivered. Kneeling there, adding more sweat to the puddle his head
rested in, he shivered.

Slowly he reached for saidin again. . . . And came against the shield,
of course. The thing he had been seeking in any case. Slowly, ever so
gently, he felt his way along it, to where a hard plane suddenly turned
to six soft points.

Soft, Lews Therin said, panting. Because they are there. Sustaining
the buffer. Hard when they knot. Nothing to be done when they are soft,
but I can unravel the web if they knot it. With time. He paused so long
Rand thought he was gone again, then he whispered, Are you real? And
then he really was gone.

Gingerly Rand felt along the shield to the soft points. To six Aes
Sedai. With time? If they tied it, which they had not so far in. . . .
What was it? Six days? Seven? Eight? No matter. He could not afford to
wait too long. Every day was one closer to Tar Valon. Tomorrow, he would
try to break through the barrier again; it had been like beating his
hands against stone, but he had beaten with all his strength. Tomorrow
when Erian flogged him—he was sure it would be her—he would smile at her
again, and when the pain built, he would let the screams come. The next
day he would not more than brush the shield, maybe hard enough to let
them feel it, but only that, and not again after whether they punished
him or not. Maybe he would beg for water. They had given him some at
dawn, but he was thirsty again; even if they let him drink more than
once a day, begging would fit. If he was still in the box then, he might
plead to be let out, too. He thought he would be; small chance of them
allowing him out for long until they were sure he had learned his
lesson. Cramped muscles twitched at the thought of two or three more
days stuffed in here. There was no room to move
anything, but his body tried. Two or three days, and they would be sure
he was broken. He would look fearful and avoid meeting anyone’s gaze. A
wretch they could safely let out of the chest. More importantly, a
wretch they did not need to guard so closely. And then, perhaps, they
would decide they did not need six to hold the shield, or that they
could tie it off, or . . . or something. He needed some crack.
Something!

It was a desperate thought, but he realized that he was laughing, and he
could not stop. He could not stop feeling at the barrier, either, a
blind man sliding his fingers desperately across a piece of smooth
glass.

 

Galina frowned after the departing Aielwomen until they topped a rise
and vanished down the other side. Every one of those women except
Sevanna herself had been able to channel, several quite strongly. No
doubt Sevanna had thought herself safer, surrounded by a dozen or so
wilders. Amusing thought. These savages were an untrusting lot. In a few
days she would make use of them again, in the second part of Sevanna’s
“bargain.” The regrettable death of Gawyn Trakand, and the better part
of his Younglings.

Returning to the heart of the camp, she found Erian still standing over
the chest containing al’Thor.

“He do be weeping, Galina,” she said fiercely. “Can you hear him? He do
be—” Suddenly tears were sliding down Erian’s face; she simply stood
there sobbing quietly, her hands fists clutching her skirts.

“Come to my tent,” Galina said soothingly. “I have some nice blueberry
tea, and I will put a cool, damp cloth on your brow.”

Erian smiled through her tears. “Thank you, Galina, but I cannot. Rashan
and Bartol will be waiting for me. They do suffer worse than I, I fear.
They do not only feel my suffering, but do suffer because they know I
do. I must comfort them.” One grateful squeeze of Galina’s hand, and she
glided away.

Galina frowned at the chest. Al’Thor did seem to be weeping; either that
or he was laughing, and she very much doubted that. She looked after
Erian, just disappearing into her Warders’ tent. Al’Thor would weep.
They had at least two weeks more to Tar Valon and Elaida’s planned
triumphal entry; yes, at least twenty days more. From now on, whether
Erian wished to do it or not, he was to be punished each day at dawn and
at sunset. When she brought him into the White Tower, he would kiss
Elaida’s ring, speak when spoken to and kneel in
the corner when he was not wanted. Eyes tight, she went to drink her
blueberry tea by herself.

 

As they entered the largish stand of trees, Sevanna turned to the
others, thinking how remarkable it was that she should think of the
trees so casually. Before crossing the Dragonwall, she had never seen so
many trees. “Did you all see the means they used to hold him?” she
asked, making it sound as if she had said “also” instead of “all.”

Therava looked at the others, who nodded. “We can weave all they have
done,” Therava said.

Nodding, Sevanna fingered the small stone cube, with its intricate
carvings, in her pouch. The strange wetlander who had given it to her
had said she should use it now, when al’Thor was captive. Until she had
actually looked on him, she had intended to; now she decided to throw
the cube away. She was the widow of a chief who had been to Rhuidean and
of a man who had been called chief without making that visit. Now she
was going to be the wife of the Car’a’carn himself. Every spear of the
Aiel would be grounded to her. Her finger still retained the feel of
al’Thor’s neck, where she had traced the line of the collar she would
put on him.

“It is time, Desaine,” she said.

Of course, Desaine blinked in surprise, and then she had time only to
scream before the others began their work. Desaine had contented herself
with grumbling about Sevanna’s position. Sevanna had put her time to
better use. Except for Desaine, every woman here was solidly behind her,
and more beside.

Sevanna watched very closely what the other Wise Ones did; the One Power
fascinated her, all those things done so miraculously, so effortlessly,
and it was very important that it would be seen that what was done to
Desaine could only have been done with the Power. She thought it quite
astounding that a human body could be taken apart with so little blood.

 


