To Shadar Logoth 


“Take us there?” Covril said, frowning formidably at the map in Rand’s
hands. “It will carry us well out of our way, if I remember where the
Two Rivers is correctly. I will not waste another day finding Loial.”
Erith nodded firmly.

Haman, cheeks still damp with tears, shook his head for their haste but
said, “I cannot allow it. Aridhol—Shadar Logoth, as you rightly name it
now—is no place for someone as young as Erith. In good truth, it is no
place for anyone.”

Letting the map fall, Rand stood up. He knew Shadar Logoth better than
he wanted to. “You will lose no time. In fact, you’ll gain. I will take
you there by Traveling, by a gateway; you will be most of the way to the
Two Rivers today. We’ll not be long. I know you can lead me right to the
Waygate.” Ogier could sense Waygates, if they were not too far.

This necessitated another conference beyond the fountain, one Erith
demanded to be part of. Rand caught only snatches, yet it was plain that
Haman, shaking his great head doggedly, opposed the plan while Covril,
ears so stiff it seemed she was trying for every inch of height,
insisted on it. At first Covril frowned at Erith as much as at Haman;
whatever the relationship between motherinlaw and daughterinlaw
among Ogier, she clearly thought the younger woman had no business in
this. It did not take her long to change her
mind, though. The Ogier women flanked Haman, hammering at him
relentlessly.

“. . . too dangerous. Much too dangerous,” came like distant thunder
from Haman.

“. . . almost there today. . . .” A slighter thunder from Covril.

“. . . he has been Outside too long already. . . .” An almost silvery
peal from Erith.

“. . . haste makes for waste . . .”

“. . . my Loial. . . .”

“. . . my Loial. . . .”

“. . . Mashadar beneath our feet. . . .”

“. . . my Loial. . . .”

“. . . my Loial. . . .”

“. . . as an Elder. . . .”

“. . . my Loial. . . .”

“. . . my Loial. . . .”

Haman came back to Rand tugging at his coat as though it had been ripped
half off, followed by the women. Covril maintained a smoother face than
Erith, who fought to suppress a smile, but their tufted ears were at the
same jaunty angle, somehow conveying satisfaction.

“We have decided,” Haman said stiffly, “to accept your offer. Let this
ridiculous gallivanting be done with so I can return to my classes. And
to the Stump. Um. Um. There is much to be said about you before the
Stump.”

Rand did not care whether Haman told the Stump he was a bully. Ogier
held themselves apart from men except for repairing their old stonework,
and it was unlikely they would influence any human one way or another
about him. “Good,” he said. “I will send someone to fetch your
belongings from your inn.”

“We have everything right here.” Covril went back around to the other
side of the fountain, bent, and straightened with two bundles that had
been hidden behind the basin. Either would have made a heavy load for a
man. She handed one to Erith and slipped a strap tied to the other over
her head so it slanted across her chest, holding the bundle against her
back.

“If Loial were here,” Erith explained, donning her bundle, “we would be
ready to start back to Stedding Tsofu without delay. If not, we would be
ready to go on. Without delay.”

“Actually, it was the beds,” Haman confided, holding his hands to
indicate a size to fit a human child. “Once every inn Outside had two or
three Ogier rooms, but they seem very hard to
find now. It is difficult to understand.” He glanced at the marked maps
and sighed. “It was difficult to understand.”

Waiting just long enough for Haman to fetch his own bundle, Rand seized
saidin and opened a gateway right there beside the fountain, a hole in
the air that showed a ruined, weedfilled street and collapsing
buildings.

“Rand al’Thor.” Sulin almost strolled into the courtyard, just ahead of
a cluster of mapladen servants and gai’shain. Liah and Cassin were
with her, pretending to be just as casual. “You asked for more maps.”
Sulin’s glance at the gateway was barely short of accusing.

“I can protect myself better there than you can,” Rand told her coldly.
He did not intend it to be cold, but wrapped in the Void, he could not
make his voice anything but cold and distant. “There is nothing your
spears can fight, and some things they can’t.”

Sulin still wore a good deal of her earlier stiffness. “All the more
reason for us to be there.”

That could not possibly make sense to anyone not Aiel, but. . . . “I
will not argue it,” he said. She would try to follow, if he refused; she
would summon Maidens who would try to leap through even if he was
closing the gateway. “I expect you have the rest of today’s guard just
inside. Whistle them up. But everyone is to stay close to me and touch
nothing. Be quick about it. I want this done with.” His memories of
Shadar Logoth were not pleasant.

“I sent them away as you insisted,” Sulin said disgustedly. “Give me a
slow count of one hundred.”

“Ten.”

“Fifty.”

Rand nodded, and her fingers flashed. Jalani darted away inside, and
Sulin’s hands flickered again. Three gai’shain women dropped their
armloads of maps, looking startled—Aiel never looked that
surprised—gathered long white robes and vanished back into the Palace in
different directions, but quickly as they moved, Sulin was ahead of
them.

As Rand reached, twenty, Aiel began bounding into the courtyard,
hurtling through windows, leaping down from balconies. He almost lost
the count. Every one was veiled, and only some Maidens. They stared
about in confusion when they found only Rand and three Ogier, who
blinked at them curiously. Some lowered their veils. The Palace servants
huddled together.

The flow continued even after Sulin returned, unveiled, dead on the
count of fifty, the courtyard filling with Aiel.
Quickly it became clear that she had spread the word the Car’a’carn
was in danger, the only way she felt she could gather enough spears in
the time allotted. A little sour grumping passed among the men, but most
decided it was a fine joke, some chuckling or rattling spears on
bucklers. None left, though; they looked at the gateway and settled on
their haunches to see what was happening.

Ears sharpened with the Power, Rand heard a Maiden named Nandera, sinewy
yet still handsome despite more gray than yellow in her hair, whisper to
Sulin. “You spoke to gai’shain as Far Dareis Mai.”

Sulin’s blue eyes met Nandera’s green levelly. “I did. We will deal with
it when Rand al’Thor is safe today.”

“When he is safe,” Nandera agreed.

Sulin chose out twenty Maidens quickly, some who had been part of the
guard that morning and some not, but when Urien began picking Red
Shields, men from other societies insisted they should be included. That
city through the gateway looked a place where enemies might be found,
and the Car’a’carn must be protected. If the truth be told, no Aiel
turned away from a possible fight, and the younger they were, the more
likely to try to find one. Another argument almost started when Rand
said the men could not number more than the Maidens—that would dishonor
Far Dareis Mai, since he had given them his honor to carry—and the
Maidens not more than Sulin had already chosen. He truly was taking them
where no battle skills could protect them, and every one who came with
him was one more he would have to watch out for. That he did not
explain; no telling whose honor he would step on if he did.

“Remember,” he said once they were sorted out, “touch nothing. Take
nothing, not even a sip of water. And stay in sight always; don’t go
inside any building for any reason.” Haman and Covril nodded vigorously,
which seemed to impress the Aiel more than Rand’s words. So long as they
were impressed.

They stepped through the gateway into a city long dead, a city more than
dead.

A golden sun more than halfway to its zenith roasted the ruins of
greatness. Here and there a huge intact dome topped a pale marble
palace, but more were holed than not, and most often only a curved and
broken fragment remained. Long columned walks ran to towers as tall as
anything Cairhien had ever dreamed of, and to towers ending jaggedly.
Everywhere roofs had fallen in, bricks and stone fanned across fractured
paving stones from collapsed buildings and walls. Shattered fountains
and broken monuments decorated every
intersection. Stunted trees, dying in the drought, dotted great hills of
rubble. Dead weeds lined cracks in streets and buildings. Nothing moved,
not a bird, not a rat, not a breeze. Silence shrouded Shadar Logoth.
Shadar Logoth. Where the Shadow Waits.

Rand let the gateway vanish. No Aiel unveiled. The Ogier stared around,
faces tight and ears laid stiffly back. Rand held on to saidin in that
fight that Taim said told a man he was alive. Even if he had not been
able to channel, maybe especially then, he would have wanted that
reminder here.

Aridhol had been a great capital in the days of the Trolloc Wars, an
ally of Manetheren and the rest of the Ten Nations. When those wars had
lasted long enough to dwarf the War of the Hundred Years, when it seemed
the Shadow was everywhere victorious and every victory of the Light did
no more than buy time, a man named Mordeth became a councilor in
Aridhol, and counseled the rule that to win, to survive, Aridhol must be
harder than the Shadow, more cruel than the Shadow, less trusting.
Slowly they made it so, until in the end, Aridhol became, if not blacker
than the Shadow, as black. With war still raging against the Trollocs,
Aridhol finally turned in on itself, turned on itself, consumed itself.

Something was left behind, something that had kept anyone from ever
living here again. Not a pebble of this place but was tainted with the
hatred and suspicion that had murdered Aridhol and left Shadar Logoth.
Not a pebble but could infect, with time.

And more than the taint remained, though that was enough to keep any
sane man away.

Rand turned slowly where he stood, staring up at windows like empty eye
sockets, the eyes gouged out. With the sun climbing high he could feel
unseen watchers. When he had been here before, that feeling had not come
this strongly until the sun began to go down. Much more than the taint
remained. A Trolloc army had died camping here, vanished except for
messages smeared on walls in blood, begging the Dark One to save them.
Night was no time to be in Shadar Logoth.

This place frightens me, Lews Therin murmured beyond the Void. Does
it not frighten you?

Rand’s breath caught. Was the voice actually addressing him? Yes, it
frightens me.

There is darkness here. Blackness blacker than black. If the Dark One
chose to live among men, he would choose here.

Yes. He would.

I must kill Demandred.

Rand blinked. Does Demandred have some connection to Shadar Logoth? To
here?

I remember at last killing Ishamael. There was a sense of wonder in
the voice, at a new discovery. He deserved to die. Lanfear deserved to
die, too, but I am glad I was not the one to kill her.

Was it just happenstance that the voice seemed to speak to him? Was Lews
Therin hearing, answering? How did I—did you kill Ishamael? Tell me
how.

Death. I want the rest of death. But not here. I do not want to die
here.

Rand sighed. Just happenstance. He would not want to die here either. A
nearby palace, broken columns along its front, had a distinct lean
toward the street. It could fall any time, and bury them where they
stood. “Lead on,” he told Haman. To the Aiel, he added, “Remember what I
said. Touch nothing, take nothing, and stay in sight.”

“I did not think it would be so bad,” Haman muttered. “It almost washes
away the Waygate.” Erith moaned, and Covril looked as though she would
if she were not too dignified. Ogier were sensitive to the mood of a
place. Haman pointed. The sweat on his face had nothing to do with the
heat. “That way.”

Broken pavement crunched beneath Rand’s boots like bones grinding. Haman
directed them around corners and down streets, past one set of ruins
after another, but his direction was sure. The encircling Aiel moved on
their toes. Their eyes above the black veils did not look as if they
expected attack, but as if the attack had already begun.

The unseen watchers and broken buildings brought back memories Rand
would as soon have avoided. Here Mat had begun a road that took him to
the Horn of Valere, that almost killed him on the way, maybe the road
that had led him to Rhuidean and the ter’angreal he did not want to
talk about. Here Perrin had disappeared when they were all forced to
flee in the night, and when Rand finally saw him again, far from here,
he had golden eyes and a sad look and secrets that Moiraine had never
shared with Rand.

He had not escaped unscathed himself, though Shadar Logoth had not
touched him directly. Padan Fain had followed them all here, himself and
Mat and Perrin, Moiraine and Lan, Nynaeve and Egwene. Padan Fain,
peddler and frequent visitor to the Two Rivers. Padan Fain, Darkfriend.
More than Darkfriend now, and worse, so Moiraine had said. Fain had
followed them all here, but what left was more than Fain, or less. Fain,
as much as he was still Fain, wanted Rand dead.
He had threatened everyone Rand loved if Rand would not come to him. And
Rand had not. Perrin had dealt with that, kept the Two Rivers safe, but
Light how it hurt. What had Fain been doing with the Whitecloaks?
Could Pedron Niall be a Darkfriend? If Aes Sedai could be, then so could
the Lord Captain Commander of the Children of the Light.

“There it is,” Haman said, and Rand gave a start. Shadar Logoth was the
last place on earth to lose yourself in thought.

Where the Elder stood had been a spacious square once, though a
weathered mound of rubble filled one end now. In the middle of the
square, where a fountain might have been, was instead an ornate filigree
fence of some shiny metal, Ogierhigh and untouched by rust. That
enclosed what appeared to be a tall length of stone carved with vines
and leaves so delicately done that you expected to feel the breeze that
was riffling them, that you were surprised to realize, they were gray
not green. The Waygate, though it certainly looked like no kind of gate.

“They cut down the grove as soon as the Ogier departed for the
stedding,” Haman muttered angrily, long brows drawn down, “no more
than twenty or thirty years, and extended the city.”

Rand touched the fence with a flow of Air, wondering how to get through,
and blinked as the whole thing collapsed into twenty or more pieces,
which fell with loud shivering clangs that made the Ogier jump. Rand
shook his head. Of course. Metal that had survived so long without a
spot of rust must be Powerwrought, maybe even remnants from the Age
of Legends, but the joins that had held them together had long since
corroded, awaiting one good shove.

Covril laid a hand on his shoulder. “I would ask you not to open it. No
doubt Loial told you how—he always did show too much interest in that
sort of thing—but the Ways are dangerous.”

“I can lock it,” Haman said, “so it cannot be opened again without the
Talisman of Growing. Um. Um. A simple matter; simply done.” He did not
seem eager, though. He certainly did not move any closer.

“It might have to be used without time for fetching anything,” Rand told
him. All the Ways might have to be used, whatever the dangers. If he
could cleanse them somehow. . . . That was almost as grandiose as his
boast to Taim that he would cleanse saidin.

He began weaving saidin around the Waygate, using all Five Powers,
even lifting the segments of fence back into place. From the first flow
he channeled, the taint seemed to pulse inside him, a slowly building
vibration. It must have been the evil in Shadar
Logoth itself, a resonance of evil to evil. Even in the Void he felt
dizzy from those reverberations, as though the world swung beneath his
feet in time to them; they made him want to vomit up everything he had
ever eaten. Still, he persevered. He could not send men to stand guard
here any more than he could have had them search.

What he wove and then inverted was a vicious sort of trap to suit a
vicious place. A ward of surpassing nastiness. Humans could cross it
unharmed, perhaps even the Forsaken—he could ward against humans or
Shadowspawn, not both—and even a male Forsaken could not detect it.
Should any sort of Shadowspawn pass through. . . . That was the
viciousness. They would not die right away; they might even live to make
it beyond the city walls. Long enough for the dead to be far off, not
here to frighten the next Myrddraal that came. Long enough for a Trolloc
army to exit perhaps, picking up their own deaths as they did. Cruel
enough for a Trolloc. Making the thing sickened him as much as the taint
on saidin.

Tying off the weave and loosing saidin brought only some relief. The
residue of filth that always seemed to remain behind still throbbed; it
almost felt as though the ground were throbbing beneath his boots. His
teeth and ears ached. He could not wait to get away from here.

Taking a deep breath, he prepared to channel again, to open a
gateway—and stopped, frowning. Quickly he counted everyone, then did it
again, more slowly. “Somebody’s missing. Who?”

The Aiel took only a moment to confer.

“Liah,” Sulin said through her veil.

“She was right behind me.” There was no mistaking Jalani’s voice.

“Maybe she saw something.” He thought that was Desora.

“I told everybody to stay together!” Rage washed across the Void, waves
breaking to froth on a boulder. One of them missing, here, and they took
it with that Lightblasted Aiel coolness. A Maiden missing. A woman
missing, in Shadar Logoth. “When I find her . . . !” Inch by inch he
fought down the fury that threatened to engulf the emptiness around him.
What he wanted to do to Liah was shout at her till she fainted, send her
to Sorilea for the rest of her life. That rage wanted whitehot murder.
“Split up in pairs. Shout, look everywhere, but don’t go inside, not for
any reason. And stay out of shadows. You can die here before you know
it. You can all die before any of you know it. If you see her in a
building, even if she looks just fine, find me unless she comes out to
you.”

“We can search faster if we each search alone,” Urien said, and Sulin
nodded agreement. There were far too many nods.

“Pairs!” Rand fought the fury down again. The
Light burn Aiel stubbornness! “At least that way you have somebody to
watch your back. For once do what I say when I say it. I’ve been here; I
know a little about this place.”

A few minutes later, most spent in argument over how many should stay
with Rand, twenty pairs of Aiel scattered. The one remaining was Jalani,
Rand thought, though it was hard to tell with the veil. For once she did
not appear to be happy guarding him; the green eyes held a decided touch
of sullenness.

“I suppose we could make another pair,” Haman said, looking at Covril.

She nodded. “And Erith can remain here.”

“No!” Rand and Erith said at almost the same instant. The older Ogier
turned with faces of grave disapproval. Erith’s ears sagged until they
looked ready to fall off.

Rand grabbed hold of his temper firmly. Once it had seemed that in the
Void, any anger was off in the far distance somewhere, attached to him
by no more than a thread. More and more it threatened to overwhelm him,
to overwhelm the Void. Which might be disastrous. Aside from that,
though. . . . “I’m sorry. I had no business shouting at you, Elder
Haman, or you, Speaker Covril.” Was that the right way to say it? Was it
even a title of that sort? Nothing in their expressions said either way.
“I would appreciate it if you would all stay with me. Then we can all
search together.”

“Of course,” Haman said. “I really don’t see how I can offer you more
protection than you can offer yourself, but it is yours.” Covril and
Erith both nodded approvingly. Rand had no idea what Haman was talking
about, but it did not seem the time to ask, with the three of them
apparently bucked up to protect him. He had no doubt he could safeguard
all three as long as they kept close.

“So long as you follow your own rules, Rand al’Thor.” The greeneyed
Maiden was indeed Jalani, and sounding heartened that she would not have
to stand and wait. Rand hoped he had given the others a better idea of
what this place was like.

From the beginning the search was frustrating. They walked up and down
the streets watched by invisible eyes, sometimes climbing over strewn
rubble, taking turns calling, “Liah! Liah!” Covril’s shouts made leaning
walls creak; Haman’s made them groan ominously. Nothing answered. The
only other sounds were the shouts of the search parties and mocking
echoes along the streets. Liah! Liah!

The sun had climbed nearly overhead when Jalani said, “I do not think
she would have gone this far, Rand al’Thor. Not
unless she was trying to get away from us, and she would not do that.”

Rand turned from peering through shadowed columns at the head of wide
stone steps, trying to see into a great chamber beyond. As far as he
could make out, there was nothing in there but dust. No footprints. The
unseen watchers had faded; they were not gone even now, but almost. “We
have to search as much as we can. Maybe she. . . .” He did not know how
to finish. “I won’t leave her here, Jalani.”

The sun swung higher and began to descend, and he was standing atop what
had been a palace once, or maybe a whole block of buildings. It was a
hill now, weathered enough over the years that only the number of broken
bricks and pieces of worked stone sticking out of the dry soil said it
had been anything else. “Liah!” he shouted through cupped hands. “Liah!”

“Rand al’Thor,” a Maiden called from the street below, lowering her veil
so he could see it was Sulin. She and another Maiden, still veiled,
stood with Jalani and the Ogier. “Come down.”

He scrambled down in a cloud of dust and a shower of bits of brick and
stone, moving so fast that he nearly fell twice. “You’ve found her?”

Sulin shook her head. “We should have by now if she is alive. She would
not have gone far on her own. If anyone carried her far, they carried
her dead, I think; she would not go easily. And if she was injured too
badly to answer our shouts, I think that also must mean she is dead.”
Haman sighed sadly. The Ogier women’s long eyebrows dropped to their
cheekbones; for some reason, their sad, pitying looks were directed at
Rand.

“Keep looking,” he said.

“May we look inside the buildings? There are many rooms we cannot see
from outside.”

Rand hesitated. Well short of midafternoon yet, and he could feel the
eyes again. As strong as they had been with the sun setting his first
time here. Shadows were not safe in Shadar Logoth. “No. But we keep
looking.”

He was not sure how long he went on shouting his way up one street and
down the next, but after a time Urien and Sulin stepped in front of him,
both unveiled. The sun sat at the treetops to the west, a bloodred ball
in a cloudless sky. Shadows stretched long across the ruins.

“I will search as long as you wish,” Urien said, “but calling and
looking have done what they can. If we could search the buildings—”

“No.” It came out a croak, and Rand cleared his throat. Light, but he
wanted a drink of water. The invisible watchers filled every window,
every opening, thousands of them, waiting,
anticipating. And shadows cloaked the city. Shadows were not safe in
Shadar Logoth, but darkness brought out death. Mashadar rose with
sunset. “Sulin, I. . . .” He could not make himself say they had to give
up, leave Liah behind whether she was dead or alive, maybe lying
somewhere unconscious, behind a wall, or under a heap of bricks that
might have tumbled down on her. She could be.

“Whatever watches us is waiting for nightfall, I think,” Sulin said. “I
have looked into windows where something was looking back at me, but
there was nothing there. Dancing the spears with something we cannot see
will not be easy.”

Rand realized he had wanted her to say again that Liah must be dead,
that they could go. Liah could be injured somewhere; it was possible. He
touched his coat pocket; the fatlittleman angreal was back in
Caemlyn with his sword and the scepter. He was not sure he could protect
everyone once night fell. Moiraine had thought the whole White Tower
could not kill Mashadar. If it could be said to be alive.

Haman cleared his throat. “From what I remember of Aridhol,” he said,
frowning, “of Shadar Logoth, that is—when the sun goes down, we will
probably all die.”

“Yes.” Rand breathed the word reluctantly. Liah, maybe alive. All the
others. Covril and Erith had their heads together a little way off. He
caught a murmur of “Loial.”

Duty is heavier than a mountain, death lighter than a feather.

Lews Therin had to have that from him—memories passed both ways across
that barrier, it seemed—but it cut to the heart.

“We have to go now,” he told them. “Whether Liah is alive or dead,
we—must go.” Urien and Sulin only nodded, but Erith moved closer and
patted him on the shoulder with surprising gentleness for a hand that
could have gripped his head.

“If I might trouble you,” Haman said, “we have been rather longer than
we expected.” He gestured to the sinking sun. “If you would do us the
favor of carrying us outside the city in the same way you brought us
here, I would appreciate it greatly.”

Rand remembered the forest outside Shadar Logoth. No Myrddraal or
Trollocs there this time, but a thick wood, and the Light alone knew how
far to the nearest village or in what direction. “I will do better than
that,” he said. “I can take you straight to the Two Rivers as quickly.”

The two older Ogier nodded gravely. “The blessing of the Light and
stillness be on you for your help,” Covril murmured. Erith’s ears
quivered with anticipation, perhaps equally for
seeing Loial and leaving Shadar Logoth.

Rand hesitated a moment. Loial would probably be in Emond’s Field, but
he could not take them there. Too much chance news of his visit would
slip out of the Two Rivers. Away from the village, then, far enough to
avoid the farms that clustered close nearby.

The vertical slash of light appeared and widened; the taint pounded
inside him again, worse than before; the ground seemed to beat at the
soles of the boots.

Half a dozen Aiel leaped through, and the three Ogier followed with a
haste that was not at all unseemly in the circumstances. Rand paused,
looking back over the ruined city. He had promised to let the Maidens
die for him.

As the last of the Aiel went through, Sulin hissed, and he glanced at
her, but she was looking at his hand. At the back of his hand, where his
fingernails had sliced a gash that oozed blood. Wrapped in the Void as
he was, the pain might have belonged to someone else. The physical mark
did not matter; it would heal. He had made deeper inside, where no one
could see. One for each Maiden who died, and he never let them heal.

“We are done here,” he said, and stepped through the gateway into the
Two Rivers. The throbbing vanished with the gateway.

Frowning, Rand tried to orient himself. Placing a gateway precisely was
not easy where you had never been before, but he had picked a field he
did know, a weedy meadow a good twohour walk south of Emond’s Field
that no one ever used for anything. In the lurid twilight he could see
sheep, though, a sizable flock, and a boy with a crook in his hands and
a bow on his back, staring at them from a hundred paces. Rand did not
need the Power in him to tell the boy was goggling, as well he might.
Dropping the crook, he set off running for a farmhouse that had not been
there when Rand was last here. A tileroofed farmhouse.

For a moment Rand wondered whether he was really in the Two Rivers at
all. No, the feel of the place told him he was. The smell of the air
shouted home. All those changes Bode and the rest of the girls had told
him about—they had not really sunk in; nothing ever really changed in
the Two Rivers. Should he send the girls back here, back home? What you
should do is stay clear of them. It was an irritable thought.

“Emond’s Field is that way,” he said. Emond’s Field. Perrin. Tam might
be there, too, at the Winespring Inn, with Egwene’s parents. “That is
where Loial should be. I don’t know if you can make it before dark. You
might ask at the farmhouse. I’m sure they will
give you a place to sleep. Don’t tell them about me. Tell no one how you
came.” The boy had seen but a boy’s tale might well be taken for
exaggeration when Ogier appeared.

Adjusting the bundles on their backs, Haman and Covril exchanged looks,
and she said, “We will say nothing of how we came. Let people make the
stories they wish.”

Haman stroked his beard and cleared his throat. “You must not kill
yourself.”

Even in the Void, Rand was startled. “What?”

“The road ahead of you,” Haman rumbled, “is long, dark, and, I very much
fear, bloodstained. I also very much fear that you will take us all down
that road. But you must live to reach the end of it.”

“I will,” Rand replied curtly. “Fare you well.” He tried to put some
warmth into that, some feeling, but he was not sure he succeeded.

“Fare you well,” Haman said, and the women echoed it before all three
turned toward the farmhouse. Not even Erith sounded as if she believed
he would, though.

A moment longer Rand stood there. People had appeared outside the house,
watching the Ogier approach, but Rand stared north and west, not toward
Emond’s Field, but toward the farm where he had grown up. When he turned
away and opened a gateway to Caemlyn, it was like tearing his own arm
off. The pain was a much more suitable memorial for Liah than a scratch.

 


