The Color of Trust 


Once Vanin was gone to tell the Band to sit tight, Mat found that not an
inn remained in Salidar but was taken over by Aes Sedai, and the five
stables were all full to bursting. Yet when he slipped a little silver
to a narrowjawed stableman, the fellow had the sacks of oats and bales
of hay shifted from a stonewalled yard that was fine for six horses. He
also showed Mat and the remaining four men of the Band places to sleep
in the loft, which was little cooler than anywhere else.

“Ask for nothing,” Mat told his men as he divided the rest of his coins
among them. “Pay for everything, and accept no gifts. The Band isn’t
going to be beholden to anybody here.”

His false air of confidence communicated itself to them, and they did
not even hesitate when he ordered them to fix the banners out the loft
door so they hung down in front of the stable, crimson and white, the
blackandwhite disc and the Dragon plain to everybody. On the other
hand, the stableman’s eyes bulged, and they almost danced as they
demanded to know what Mat was doing.

He only grinned and tossed the narrowjawed fellow a gold mark. “Just
letting everybody know for sure who’s come to call.” He wanted Egwene to
realize he was not going to be pushed around, and sometimes making
people see that meant you had to act like jackfool.

The trouble was, the banners had no effect. Oh, everybody who walked
by gaped and pointed; a number of Aes Sedai came
just to look, cooleyed and expressionless, but he more than half
expected an indignant demand to take them down, and that never
materialized. When he returned to the Little Tower, an Aes Sedai who
somehow managed to be prunefaced despite smooth ageless cheeks shifted
her brownfringed shawl and told him in no uncertain terms that the
Amyrlin Seat was busy; perhaps she could see him in a day or two.
Perhaps. Elayne appeared to have vanished, and so did Aviendha, but no
one was crying murder yet; he suspected the Aiel might be somewhere
having a white dress pulled over her head. All the same to him if it
kept the peace; he did not want to be the one to tell Rand one had
killed the other. He did catch a sight of Nynaeve, but she ducked around
a corner and was gone by the time he reached it.

He spent most of the afternoon looking for Thom and Juilin; either one
surely could tell him more of what was going on, and besides, he needed
to apologize to Thom for his remarks about that letter. Unfortunately
nobody seemed to know where they were either. Long before nightfall he
concluded that they were being kept out of his way. Egwene really did
mean for him to stew, but he intended to let her know he was not even
simmering. In aid of that, he went dancing.

It seemed that celebrations over a new Amyrlin were supposed to go on
for a month, and though everyone in Salidar seemed to be working at a
run during the day, once darkness fell bonfires were lit at every street
crossing, and fiddles and flutes appeared and even a dulcimer or two.
Music and laughter filled the air, and festival reigned until bedtime.
He saw Aes Sedai dancing in the streets with carters and stablemen still
in their rough clothes, and Warders dancing with serving women and cooks
who had put aside their aprons. No Egwene, though; the Amyrlin bloody
Seat was not going to caper in the streets. No Elayne or Nynaeve,
either, and no Thom or Juilin. Thom would not have missed a dance with
both legs broken unless he was deliberately kept away. Mat settled down
to enjoy himself, to let everybody see he had not a care in the world.
It did not work exactly as he wished.

He danced a short time with the most beautiful woman he had ever seen in
his life, a slim yet buxom armful who wanted to know all about Mat
Cauthon. Very flattering, especially when she had asked him to step out.
But after a while he noticed that Halima had a way of brushing against
him, a way of leaning to look at something so he could not help seeing
down her dress. He might have enjoyed it, if not for the fact that she
glanced at his face every time with a sharp eye and an amused smile. She
was not a very good dancer—she kept trying to
lead, for one thing—and he finally begged off.

It should have been nothing, but before he had gone ten paces the fox
head went icy cold on his chest. He spun around, looking furiously for
anything at all. What he saw was Halima staring at him in the firelight.
Only for an instant before she seized a tall Warder’s arm and whirled
back into the dance, but he was sure he had seen shock on that beautiful
face.

The fiddles were wailing a tune he recognized. At least, one of his old
memories did, not very much changed considering the passage of well over
a thousand years. The words must have changed altogether, for the old
words that echoed in his head would never have found favor here.

 

Give me your trust, said the Aes Sedai.

On my shoulders I support the sky.

Trust me to know and to do what is best,

And I will take care of the rest.

But trust is the color of a dark seed growing.

Trust is the color of a heart’s blood flowing.

Trust is the color of a soul’s last breath.

Trust is the color of death.

“Aes Sedai?” a plump young woman said contemptuously to his question.
She was pretty, and he might have tried for a bit of kiss and cuddle in
different circumstances. “Halima’s just Delana Sedai’s secretary. Always
teasing the men, she is. Like a child with a new toy; teasing just to
see if she can. She’d be in hot water to her neck ten times over if
Delana didn’t protect her.”

 

Give me your trust, said the queen on her throne,

for I must bear the burden all alone.

Trust me to lead and to judge and to rule,

and no man will think you a fool.

But trust is the sound of the gravedog’s bark.

Trust is the sound of betrayal in the dark.

Trust is, the sound of a soul’s last breath.

Trust is the sound of death.

Maybe he had been mistaken. Maybe she had just been shocked that he
walked off. Not many men would walk away from a woman who looked
like that, no matter how she teased or danced.
That had to be it. But that left the question of who and why. He looked
around, at the dancers, and the people watching from the edge of the
shadows and waiting their turns. The goldenhaired Hunter for the Horn
who had seemed familiar went spinning by with a particularly lumpyfaced
fellow, her braid almost standing out behind her. Mat could pick out Aes
Sedai by their faces—most of them he could—but there was no way to tell
which had tried to . . . whatever it was she had tried.

He strode on down the street to the next bonfire as much to get away
from that song as anything, before it went on through “the king on high”
and “the lady and lord” to “the love of your life” in his head. In that
old memory he remembered writing that song, because of the love of his
life. Trust is the taste of death. At that next corner a fiddler and a
woman with a flute were playing what sounded like “Fluff the Feathers,”
a good country dance.

How far could he trust Egwene? She was Aes Sedai now; she must be, if
she was Amyrlin, even a ragtag Amyrlin in a ragtag village. Well,
whatever she was, she was Egwene; he could not believe she would strike
at him out of the dark that way. Of course, Nynaeve might, though not to
injure him really. His hip still hurt, though; the bruise had made a
knot. And the Light only knew what a woman like Elayne might do. They
were still trying to chase him away, he decided. He could probably
expect more attempts. The best thing was to ignore them; he almost hoped
they did try again. They could not touch him with the Power, and the
more they tried and failed, why, the more they would have to see he was
not to be budged.

Myrelle came to stand beside him, watching the dancers. He remembered
her, vaguely. He did not think she knew anything dangerous about him. He
did not think so. She was not as beautiful as Halima, of course, but
still much more than merely pretty. Flickering shadows washed her face
so he could almost forget she was Aes Sedai.

“A warm night,” she said, smiling, and went on in such a casual way
while he enjoyed looking at her that it took him some time to realize
what she was getting at.

“I don’t think so,” he said politely when she gave an opening. This was
what came of forgetting; Aes Sedai were Aes Sedai.

She only smiled. “There would be many advantages, and I would not try to
pin you to my skirts. Many advantages. You’ve chosen a perilous life, or
had it chosen for you. A Warder might have a better chance of survival.”

“I really don’t think so. No, but thank you for the offer.”

“Think on it, Mat. Unless. . . . Has the Amyrlin
bonded you?”

“No.” Egwene would not do that. Would she? She could not so long as he
wore the medallion, but would she if he did not have it? “If you will
excuse me?” He gave her a shallow bow and walked quickly to where a
pretty, blueeyed young woman was tapping her foot to the music. She had
a sweet mouth, just right for kissing, and he bloody well wanted to
enjoy himself. “I saw your eyes, and I couldn’t help coming over. Will
you dance?”

Too late he saw the Great Serpent ring on her right hand, and then that
sweet mouth opened and a voice he recognized said dryly, “I asked you
once whether you’d be there when the house was burning down, boy, but it
seems you make a habit of jumping into fires. Now go away and find
somebody who wants to dance with you.”

Siuan Sanche! She was stilled and dead! She was glaring at him with some
young woman’s face she had stolen, was what she was, and wearing an Aes
Sedai ring! He had asked Siuan Sanche to dance!

While he was still staring, a willowy young Domani woman swirled up in a
pale green dress thin enough for the light of the bonfire to silhouette
her through it. Giving Siuan a frosty look that was returned with
interest, the Domani all but snatched him out among the dancers. She was
as tall as an Aiel woman, dark eyes actually a little higher than his.
“I am Leane, by the way,” she said in a voice like a honeyed caress, “in
case you did not recognize me.” Her low laugh was almost a caress too.

He jumped and nearly fumbled the first turn. She also wore the ring. He
moved by rote. Tall or not, she was a feather in his hands, a gliding
swan, but that was certainly not enough to stop the question that kept
popping in his head like an Illuminator’s fireworks. How? How under the
Light? To top it all, when the dance was done, she said, “You are a very
good dancer,” in that stroking voice, and then kissed him about as
thoroughly as he had ever been kissed. He was so shocked he did not even
try to get away. Sighing, she patted his cheek. “A very good dancer.
Think of it as dancing next time, and you will do better.” And off she
went laughing, back into the dance with some fellow she snagged from the
onlookers.

Mat decided he had had as much as one man could take in a night. He went
back to the stable and went to sleep, with his saddle for a pillow. His
dreams would have been pleasant, except that they all involved Myrelle
and Siuan and Leane and Halima. When it came to dreams, a man just
naturally lacked the sense to pour water out of a boot.

The next day had to be better, he thought, especially when dawn found
Vanin in the loft, asleep on his saddle. Talmanes understood and
would hold where he was; Warders had been seen
watching the Band’s preparations, no doubt letting themselves be seen,
but no one had come near the Band. A less pleasant surprise was finding
Olver’s gray in the yard behind the stable, and Olver himself curled up
in his blankets in a corner.

“You need somebody to watch your back,” he told Mat darkly. “She cannot
be trusted.” There was no need for him to name Aviendha.

Olver had no interest in playing with the children in the village, so
Mat had to endure the stares and smiles as the boy trailed him around
Salidar, doing his best to imitate a Warder’s flowing stride and looking
nine ways at once for Aviendha. Who was still nowhere to be seen, any
more than Elayne or Nynaeve. And “the Amyrlin” was still busy. Thom and
Juilin were also “busy.” Vanin managed to hear a few things, but nothing
that made Mat happy. If Nynaeve had really Healed Siuan and Leane, she
would be worse than ever; she had always had a large opinion of herself,
and after doing what could not be done, her head would be bigger than a
dewmelon. Yet that was the mildest of it. Logain and the Red Ajah made
Mat wince. That sounded the sort of thing no Aes Sedai would forgive. If
Gareth Bryne was leading their army, it was no mob of farmers and street
sweepings with a few Warders for stiffening. Add in the foodstuffs Vanin
saw being wrapped or stuck in barrels for travel, and it sounded like
trouble. The worst kind of trouble Mat could imagine, short of finding
one of the Forsaken across the table from him and a dozen Trollocs
coming in the door. None of it made them any less fools; it made them
very dangerous fools. Thom and his “help them make it work.” If the
gleeman ever came out of hiding, maybe he could pull a “how” out of one
of his tales.

In the evening Myrelle spoke to him again about becoming a Warder, and
went a little tight around the eyes when he told her hers would be the
fifth offer he had refused since sunup. He was not sure she believed
him; she flounced off in as much of a huff as he had ever seen from an
Aes Sedai. It was true, though. The very first, while he was still
trying to eat breakfast, had been the very Delana that Halima worked
for, a stout palehaired woman with watery blue eyes who came close to
trying to bully him into it. That night he stayed away from the dancing
and went to sleep with music and laughter in his ears; they sounded sour
this time.

It was midafternoon of his second full day in Salidar when a girl in a
white dress, pretty and freckled and working very hard at an icy dignity
that she almost reached, found him with a summons, and it was exactly
that. “You will present yourself before the Amyrlin Seat at once.” Full
stop, and not another word. Mat motioned her to
lead; it seemed proper, and she seemed to like doing it.

They were all there in that room in the Little Tower, Egwene and
Nynaeve, Elayne and Aviendha, though he had to look twice to recognize
the Aiel woman in a blue dress of fine wool with a lace collar and
cuffs. At least neither Aviendha nor Elayne was trying to strangle the
other, but they were both stonyfaced. Which made them no different from
Egwene and Nynaeve. Not a flicker of expression in the four, and all
eyes on him. He managed to hold his tongue while Egwene laid out his
choices as she saw them, sitting behind the table with that striped
stole draped on her shoulders.

“Should you think you can do neither,” she finished, “remember that I
can have you tied to your horse and returned to your Band of the Hand.
There is no room in Salidar for slackers and malingerers. I will not
allow it. For you, Mat, it’s either Ebou Dar with Elayne and Nynaeve, or
off to see who you can impress with flags and banners.”

Which really left no choice at all, of course. When he said so, nobody’s
expression changed. If anything, Nynaeve grew more wooden. And Egwene
just said, “I’m glad that is done, Mat. Now, I have a thousand things to
do. I will try to see you before you go.” Dismissed like a stableboy;
the Amyrlin was busy. The least she could have done was toss him a
copper.

That was why Mat’s third morning in Salidar found him just outside it,
on the cleared ground between village and forest. “They may stay right
here till I get back,” he told Talmanes, glancing over his shoulder
toward the houses. They would be coming soon, and he did not want any of
this getting back to Egwene. She would try to drive a spike through it
if she could. “I hope so, anyway. If they move, follow wherever they go,
but never close enough to frighten. And if a young woman named Egwene
shows up, you ask no questions, just take her and ride to Caemlyn if you
have to cut a hole through Gareth Bryne.” Of course, they might be
intending to go to Caemlyn; there might be a chance. He was afraid it
was Tar Valon they were aiming at, though; Tar Valon and the headsman’s
axe. “And take Nerim with you.”

Talmanes shook his head. “If you are taking Nalesean, I will be offended
if you do not let me send my man to care for your things.” Mat wished
Talmanes would smile once in a while; it would help to know when he was
serious. He certainly sounded serious.

Nerim stood a little distance off, with Pips, and his own short plump
brown mare towering over him, and two packhorses with wicker panniers
stuffed to the top. Nalesean’s man, a stout fellow named Lopin, only led
one pack animal in addition to his hammernosed
gelding and Nalesean’s tall black stallion.

That was not all the party. No one seemed ready to tell him more than
where to be and when, but in the middle of yet another talk about
becoming a Warder, Myrelle had let him know it was now all right for him
to communicate with the Band so long as he did not try to bring them
nearer Salidar. That had been the last thing in his mind. Vanin was
there this morning because he could probably spy out the lay of the land
anywhere, and a dozen cavalrymen chosen from the Band for heavy
shoulders and having kept order well as Redarms back in Maerone. From
what Nalesean said, quick fists and cudgels should be able to quell any
inconvenience Nynaeve and Elayne got into, at least long enough to
spirit them away. Last of all was Olver on the gray he had named Wind,
which the leggy animal might even deserve. Olver had been no hard
choice. The Band might well find trouble if they actually had to follow
that lot of madwomen. Maybe not trouble with Bryne, but enough nobles
would bristle at two armies crossing their lands to provide nightly
attempts at the horses and arrows flying from every second thicket. Any
city had to be safer than that for a boy.

Still no sign of any Aes Sedai, and the sun beginning to bake above the
treetops.

Mat jerked his hat down irritably. “Nalesean knows Ebou Dar, Talmanes.”
The Tairen grinned through his sweat and nodded. Talmanes’ face did not
change. “Oh, all right. Nerim comes.” Talmanes inclined his head; maybe
he had been serious.

At last there was a stir in the village, a group of women leading
horses. Not just Elayne and Nynaeve, though he had not expected anyone
else. Aviendha wore a gray riding dress, but she looked at her lean dun
mare more than doubtfully. That Hunter with the golden braid showed more
confidence with a heavyhaunched mousecolored gelding and seemed to be
trying to convince Aviendha of something about her mare. What was either
of them doing there? There were two Aes Sedai, as well—other Aes Sedai
besides Nynaeve and Elayne, he supposed he should say—slender women with
white hair, which he had not seen on an Aes Sedai before. An old fellow
trailed after them with a packhorse in addition to his own mount, a
stringy man without much hair and that gray. It took Mat a moment to
realize he was a Warder, with one of those colorshifting cloaks hanging
down his back. That was what being a Warder meant; Aes Sedai worked you
till your hair fell out, then probably worked your bones after you were
dead.

Thom and Juilin came not far behind, and they had a packhorse too.
The women stopped some fifty paces to the left
with their aged Warder, not so much as looking at Mat and his men. The
gleeman glanced at Nynaeve and the others, then spoke to Juilin, and
they led their horses toward Mat, stopping short as if uncertain of
their welcome. Mat went to them.

“I have to apologize, Mat,” Thom said, knuckling his mustaches. “Elayne
put it in no uncertain terms that I wasn’t to talk with you further. She
only relented this morning. In a weak moment some months back I promised
to follow her orders, and she flings it in my face at the most awkward
times. She wasn’t very pleased that I had said as much as I did.”

“Nynaeve threatened to punch my eye if I went near you,” Juilin said
glumly, leaning on his bamboo staff. He was wearing a red Taraboner cap
that could not give much protection from the sun, and even that looked
glum.

Mat looked toward the women. Nynaeve was peeking at him over her saddle,
but when she saw him looking, she ducked behind her horse, a plump brown
mare. He would not have thought even Nynaeve could beat Juilin down, but
the dark thieftaker was a far cry from the man he had known briefly in
Tear. That Juilin had been ready for anything; this Juilin, with a
permanently furrowed brow, looked as if he never stopped worrying. “We
will teach her some manners this trip, Juilin. Thom, I’m the one who has
to apologize. What I said about the letter. It was the heat talking, and
worry over fool women. I hope it was good news.” Too late he remembered
what Thom had said. He had left the woman who wrote that letter to die.

But Thom only shrugged. Mat did not know what to make of him without his
gleeman’s cloak. “Good news? I haven’t puzzled that out yet. Often you
don’t know whether a woman is friend, enemy or lover until it is too
late. Sometimes, she is all three.” Mat expected a laugh, but Thom
frowned and sighed. “Women always seem to like making themselves
mysterious, Mat. I can give you an example. Do you remember Aludra?”

Mat had to think. “The Illuminator we kept from getting her throat slit
in Aringill?”

“The very one. Juilin and I met her during our travels, and she didn’t
know me. Not that she failed to recognize me; you say things to a
stranger you travel with, to get to know them. Aludra did not want to
know me, and even if I didn’t know why, I saw no reason to impose. I met
her a stranger and left her a stranger. Now, would you call her a friend
or an enemy?”

“Maybe a lover,” Mat said dryly. He would not mind meeting Aludra again;
she had given him some fireworks that proved very useful. “If you want
to know about women, ask Perrin, not me. I don’t know anything at
all. I used to think Rand knew, but Perrin
surely does.” Elayne was talking with the two whitehaired Aes Sedai
under the Hunter’s watchful eye. One of the older Aes Sedai gazed in
Mat’s direction consideringly. They had the same sort of bearing Elayne
did, cool as a queen on her bloody throne. “Well, with luck I won’t have
to put up with them long,” he muttered to himself. “With luck, whatever
they’re doing won’t take long, and we can be back here in five or ten
days.” With luck, he might be back before the Band had to begin
shadowing the madwomen. Tracking not one army but two would be easy as
stealing a pie, of course, but he did not look forward to any more days
in Elayne’s company than necessary.

“Ten days?” Thom said. “Mat, even with this ‘gateway’ it will take five
or six just to reach Ebou Dar. Better than twenty or so, but. . . .”

Mat stopped listening. Every shred of irritation that had been building
since he first laid eyes on Egwene again came to a head at once.
Snatching off his hat, he stalked to where Elayne and the others were.
Keeping him in the dark was bad enough—how was he supposed to keep them
out of trouble when they told him nothing?—but this was ridiculous.
Nynaeve saw him coming and darted behind her mare for some reason.

“It will be interesting traveling with a ta’veren,” one of the
whitehaired Aes Sedai said. Up close, he still could not fasten any age
to her, yet somehow her face conveyed an impression of long years. It
must have been the hair. She could have used the other for a mirror;
maybe they really were sisters. “I am Vandene Namelle.”

Mat was in no mood to talk about being ta’veren. He was never in that
mood, but certainly not now. “What’s this nonsense I hear about five or
six days to reach Ebou Dar?” The old Warder straightened, staring hard,
and Mat reevaluated him as well; stringy, but hard as old roots. It made
no difference in his tone. “You can open a gateway in sight of Ebou Dar.
We aren’t any bloody army to scare anyone, and as for popping out of
air, you’re Aes Sedai. People expect you to pop out of air and walk
through walls.”

“I fear you are speaking to the wrong one of us,” Vandene said. He
looked at the other whitehaired woman, who shook her head as Vandene
said, “Nor Adeleas, I fear. It appears we are not strong enough for some
of the new things.”

Mat hesitated, then settled his hat low and turned to Elayne.

Her chin came up. “Apparently you know rather less than you believe,
Master Cauthon,” she said coolly. She was not sweating, he realized, no
more than the two . . . the other two . . . Aes Sedai. The Hunter was
staring at him challengingly. What had put a bee in her ear? “There are
villages and farms around Ebou Dar for a hundred
miles,” Elayne went on, explaining the obvious to a fool. “A gateway is
quite dangerous. I do not intend to kill some poor man’s sheep or cows,
much less the poor man himself.”

He hated more than her tone. She was right, and he hated that too. He
was not about to admit she was, though, not to her, and searching for a
way to retreat, he saw Egwene coming out of the village with two dozen
or more Aes Sedai, most wearing fringed shawls. Or rather, she came, and
they followed. Head held high, she looked straight ahead, that striped
stole hanging about her neck. The others strolled along behind her in
little clumps. Sheriam, wearing the blue Keeper’s stole, was talking
with Myrelle and a blufffaced Aes Sedai who managed to look motherly.
Except for Delana, he recognized none of the others—one had gray hair in
a bun; how old did Aes Sedai have to be for their hair to go completely
gray or white?—but they were all talking among themselves, ignoring the
woman they had named Amyrlin. Egwene might as well have been alone; she
looked alone. Knowing her, she was trying very hard to be what they had
named her, and they let her walk alone, with everybody watching.

To the Pit of Doom with them if they think they can treat a Two Rivers
woman that way, he thought grimly.

Striding to meet Egwene, he swept off his hat and bowed, making the best
leg he knew how, and he could flourish with the best when he had to.
“Good morning, Mother, and the Light shine on you,” he said, loud enough
to be heard in the village. Kneeling, he seized her right hand and
kissed her Great Serpent ring. A quick glare and a grimace directed at
Talmanes and the others, and hidden by Egwene from those behind her, had
them all scrambling to kneel and call out, “The Light illumine you,
Mother,” or some variation. Even Thom and Juilin.

Egwene looked startled at first, though she hid it quickly. Then she
smiled, and said softly, “Thank you, Mat.”

For a moment he stared up at her, then cleared his throat and stood,
brushing off his knees. Sheriam and all those others behind Egwene were
staring at him. “I didn’t expect you out here,” he said in a low voice,
“but then, it seems there are all sorts of things I didn’t expect. Does
the Amyrlin always see people off on trips? You wouldn’t by any chance
want to tell me what it’s all about now, would you?”

At first he thought she might; then her mouth tightened for an instant
and she gave a slight shake of her head. “I will always see friends off,
Mat. I’d have spoken with you before this if I
was not so busy. Mat, do try to stay out of trouble in Ebou Dar.”

He stared indignantly. Here he went kneeling and kissing rings, and she
told him to stay out of trouble, when the whole point was for him to
keep Elayne and Nynaeve with whole skins. “I will try, Mother,” he said
wryly, but not too. Sheriam and some of those might be close enough to
hear. “If you will excuse me, I must see to my men.”

Another bow, and he backed away a few steps before stalking over to
where Talmanes and the rest were still on their knees. “Do you mean to
stay there till you take root?” he growled. “Mount up.” He followed his
own order, and everyone but Talmanes scrambled into their saddles.

Egwene passed a few words with Elayne and Nynaeve, while Vandene and
Adeleas went to speak to Sheriam, and then it was time, as quick as that
after all their dawdling. Mat halfexpected some sort of ceremony, with
Egwene there in the Amyrlin’s stole, but she and the others who were not
going merely withdrew a little distance. Elayne stepped out, and
suddenly there was a slash of light in front of her, widening into a
hole, the view through it, what seemed to be a low hilltop covered in
brown grass, rotating to a halt. Just like when Rand did it. Almost.

“Dismount,” Mat ordered. Elayne looked quite pleased with herself—you
would never suspect the sort of woman she was from that delighted smile,
asking Nynaeve and Aviendha to share her pleasure—but pleased or not,
the gateway was not as large as the one Rand had made for the Band. Of
course, they were not nearly so many as the Band, but the least she
could have done was make it tall enough to ride through.

On the other side, low rolling browngrass hills ran as far as Mat could
see even when he climbed back onto Pips, though a darkness to the south
suggested forest. Dusty hills.

“We must not press the horses too hard in this,” Adeleas said, swinging
quite easily onto her round bay mare as soon as the gateway vanished.
The animal looked as if it would be more at home in a barn.

“Oh, indeed not,” Vandene said. Her mount was a slabsided black gelding
that had a light step. The pair of them started south, motioning
everyone to follow. The old Warder rode right at their heels.

Nynaeve and Elayne exchanged irritated looks, then booted their mares to
catch the older women, hooves beating up dust until they were level. The
yellowbraided Hunter dogged them the way the Warder did the other pair.

Sighing, Mat undid the black kerchief around his
neck and retied it over his nose and mouth. Much as he might enjoy
seeing the older Aes Sedai teach those two to sit up straight, what he
really wanted was an uneventful ride, a short stay in Ebou Dar, and a
quick jump back to Salidar before Egwene did anything stupid and
irretrievable. Women always gave him trouble; he did not understand it.

 

When the gateway winked out, Egwene sighed. Maybe Elayne and Nynaeve
between them could keep Mat from getting into too much trouble. Keeping
him out entirely was probably too much to ask. She felt a pang of regret
for using him, but he might be some use where he was, and he had had to
be gotten away from the Band. Besides, he deserved it. Maybe Elayne
would teach him a few manners.

Turning to the others, the Hall and Sheriam and her circle, she said,
“Now we must get on with what we’re about.”

All eyes went to the Cairhienin in the dark coat just now mounting his
horse near the trees. Talmanes, Egwene thought Mat had said his name
was; she had not dared ask too many questions. He studied them for a
moment and shook his head before riding into the forest.

“A man who means trouble if I ever saw one,” Romanda said.

Lelaine nodded. “It will be well to put miles between ourselves and that
sort.”

Egwene did not let herself smile. Mat’s Band had served its first
purpose, but a great deal depended on exactly what orders Mat had left
with this Talmanes. She thought she could depend on Mat in this. Siuan
said that man Vanin had rooted out things before she had a chance to put
them under his nose. And if she was to “come to her senses” and run to
the Band for protection, then the Band would have to be close to her.
“Shall we go to our horses?” she said. “If we leave now, we should catch
up to Lord Bryne well before sunset.”

 


