Unexpected Laughter 


“You have to help me talk some sense into them,” Mat said around his
pipestem. “Thom, are you listening?”

They were seated on upended kegs in the scant shade of a twostory
house, smoking their pipes, and the lanky old gleeman seemed more
interested in staring at the letter Rand had sent on to him. Now he
stuffed it into his coat pocket with the bluewax seal yet unbroken. The
buzz of voices and squeak of axles from the street at the end of the
alley seemed distant. Sweat dripped from both their faces. At least one
thing was taken care of for the moment. Mat had come out of the Little
Tower to find that a group of Aes Sedai had hauled Aviendha away
somewhere; she would not be sticking a knife in anybody any time soon.

Thom took his pipe from his mouth. It was a longstemmed thing, carved
all over with oak leaves and acorns. “I once tried to rescue a woman,
Mat. Laritha was a rose in bud, and married to a glowering brute of a
bootmaker in a village where I broke my journey for a few days. A brute.
He shouted at her if dinner wasn’t ready when he wanted to sit down, and
took a switch to her if he saw her say more than two words to another
man.”

“Thom, what in the Pit of Doom does this have to do with making those
fool women see sense?”

“Just listen, boy. How he treated her was common knowledge in the
village, but Laritha told me herself, all the while moaning over how she
wished someone would rescue her. I had gold in
my purse and a fine coach, a driver and a manservant. I was young and
goodlooking.” Thom knuckled his white mustaches and sighed; it was hard
to believe that leathery face had ever been goodlooking. Mat blinked. A
coach? When had a gleeman ever had a coach? “Mat, the woman’s plight
wrung my heart. And I won’t deny her face tugged at it, too. As I said,
I was young; I thought I was in love, a hero out of the stories. So one
day, sitting beneath a flowering apple tree—well away from the
bootmaker’s house—I offered to take her away. I’d give her a maid and a
house of her own, and court her with songs and verse. When she finally
understood, she kicked me in the knee so hard I limped for a month, and
hit me with the bench besides.”

“They all seem to like kicking,” Mat muttered, shifting his weight on
the keg. “I suppose she didn’t believe you, and who can blame her?”

“Oh, she believed. And was outraged that I thought she would ever leave
her beloved husband. Her word; beloved. She ran back to the man as fast
as her feet would go, and I had the choice of killing him or leaping
into my coach. I had to leave behind almost every stitch I owned. I
expect she’s still living with him much as before. Holding the purse
strings tight in her fist and cracking his head open with whatever lies
to hand every time he stops into the inn for an ale. As she always had,
so I learned later from a few discreet inquiries.” He stuck the pipe
back between his teeth as if he had made a point.

Mat scratched his head. “I don’t see what that has to do with this.”

“Just that you shouldn’t think you know the whole story when you’ve
heard part. For instance, do you know Elayne and Nynaeve will be leaving
for Ebou Dar in a day or so? Juilin and I are to go along.”

“Ebou . . . !” Mat barely caught his pipe before it fell into the dead
weeds that carpeted the alley. Nalesean had told some stories about a
visit to Ebou Dar, and even counting in the way he exaggerated when it
came to women he had known and fights he had been in, the place sounded
rough. So they thought they could slip Elayne away from him, did they?
“Thom, you have to help me—”

“What?” Thom broke in. “Steal them away from the bootmaker?” He blew up
a streamer of blue smoke. “I won’t do that, boy. You still don’t know
the whole story. How do you feel about Egwene and Nynaeve? On second
thought, make that just Egwene.”

Mat frowned, wondering whether the man thought he could fuddle
everything up by going around in circles long enough. “I like Egwene.
I. . . . Burn me, Thom, she’s Egwene; that’s saying enough right there.
That’s why I am trying to save her fool neck for her.”

“Save her from her bootmaker, you mean,” Thom
murmured, but Mat went right on.

“Her neck and Elayne’s as well; even Nynaeve’s, if I can stop from
throttling her myself. Light! I only want to help them. Besides, Rand
will break my neck if I let anything happen to Elayne.”

“Have you ever thought of helping them do what they want instead of what
you want? If I did what I wanted, I’d have Elayne on a horse and riding
to Andor. She needs to do other things—needs to, I think—so I trot
around after her, sweating day and night that somebody will manage to
kill her before I can prevent it. She will go to Caemlyn when she’s
ready.” He sucked at his pipe complacently, but there was a slight edge
to his voice at the end, as if he did not like his words even as much as
he pretended.

“It seems to me they want to hand their heads to Elaida.” So Thom would
have that silly wench on a horse, would he? A gleeman hauling the
DaughterHeir off to be crowned! He did have a grand sense of himself,
Thom did.

“You aren’t a fool, Mat,” Thom said quietly. “You know better.
Egwene. . . . It’s hard to think of that child as Amyrlin . . .” Mat
grunted sourly in agreement; Thom paid him no mind. “. . . yet I believe
she has the backbone for it. It’s too early to say whether a few things
are just happenstance, but I’m beginning to believe she may have the
brains as well. The question is, is she tough enough? If she lacks that,
they will eat her alive—backbone, brains and all.”

“Who will? Elaida?”

“Oh, her. If she has the chance; that one lacks nothing for toughness.
But the Aes Sedai right here hardly think of Egwene as Aes Sedai;
Amyrlin maybe, but not Aes Sedai, hard as that is to believe.” Thom
shook his head. “I don’t understand, but it’s true. The same for Elayne
and Nynaeve. They try to keep it among themselves, but even Aes Sedai
don’t hide as much as they think, if you watch close and keep your wits
about you.” He pulled out that letter again, just turning it over in his
hands without looking at it. “Egwene is walking the edge of a precipice,
Mat, and three factions right here in Salidar—three that I’m sure
of—might push her over if she makes one wrong step. Elayne will follow
if that happens, and Nynaeve. Or maybe they’ll push them over first to
pull her down.”

“Right here in Salidar,” Mat said, flat as a planed board. Thom nodded
calmly, and Mat could not stop his voice from rising. “And you want me
to leave them here?”

“I want you to stop thinking you’re going to make them do anything.
They’ve decided what they are going to do, and
you can’t change it. But maybe—just maybe—you can help me keep them
alive.”

Mat jumped to his feet. In his head was an image of a woman with a knife
stuck between her breasts; not one of the borrowed memories. He kicked
the keg he had been sitting on, sending it rolling along the alley. Help
a gleeman keep them alive? A faint memory stirred, something about
Basel Gill, an innkeeper in Caemlyn, saying something about Thom, but it
was like mist, gone as soon as he tried to hold it. “Who’s the letter
from, Thom? Another woman you rescued? Or did you leave her where she
could get her head cut off?”

“I left her,” Thom said softly. Rising, he walked away without another
word.

Mat half reached out to stop him, started to speak. Only he could not
think of what to say. Crazy old man! No, he was not crazy. Egwene was
mule stubborn, and Nynaeve made her look biddable. Worse, either would
climb a tree to see the lightning better. As for Elayne, noblewomen
never had enough sense to come in out of the rain. And then they were
indignant when they got wet.

Tapping out his pipe, he crushed the embers under heel before the dry
weeds could catch, then caught up his hat from the ground and limped out
to the street. He needed information from a better source than a gleeman
who had delusions of grandeur from running around with that stuckup
chit of a DaughterHeir. Down to his left he saw Nynaeve coming out of
the Little Tower and started toward her, winding between loaded carts
drawn by oxen or horses. She could tell him what he needed to know. If
she would. His hip gave him a twinge. Burn me, she owes me a few
answers.

Just then Nynaeve caught sight of him and stiffened visibly. For a
moment she watched him approach, then abruptly hurried off in the other
direction, plainly trying to avoid him. She looked over her shoulder
twice before people and carts hid her.

He stopped, scowling, and pulled his hat low. First the woman kicked him
for no reason; now she would not talk to him. They meant to let him
stew, her and Egwene, until he would trot off meekly when they pointed a
finger. Well, they chose the wrong man for their game, burn their
hides!

Vanin and the others were outside a stable beside a stone building that
had surely been an inn once. Aes Sedai streamed in and out of it now.
Pips and the rest of their horses were tied to a hitching rail, and
Vanin and the two scouts who had been captured were squatting against
the wall. Mar and Ladwin were as different as men could be, one tall,
lanky and roughfaced, the other short, stocky
and mildseeming, but both looked plain embarrassed when Mat walked up.
Neither had gotten over the ease of his capture. The two squadmen stood
stiffly, still holding the banners tight against their staffs as if
there was any point to it now. They looked more than a little
apprehensive. A battle was one thing; all these Aes Sedai were quite
another. A man had a chance in battle. There were two Warders watching
them. Not openly, and from across the stableyard, but they had not just
picked that spot, standing in the full sun, to talk.

Mat stroked Pips’ nose, then after a moment began to examine the horse’s
eyes. A fellow in a leather vest came out of the stable, shoving a dung
barrow up the street. Vanin walked over to peer into Pips’ eye. Not
looking at him, Mat said, “Could you reach the Band?”

“Maybe.” Vanin frowned and lifted Pips’ eyelid. “With a little luck,
maybe. Hate to leave my horse, though.”

Mat nodded, looking closer at the eye. “Tell Talmanes I said to sit
tight. I may be staying here a few days, and I don’t want any bloody
attempted rescue. Try to make it back here. Without being seen, if you
can.”

Vanin spat into the dust under Pips. “Man mixes with Aes Sedai, he’s
bridled himself and put a saddle on his back. I’ll be back when I can.”
Shaking his head, he strolled off into the crowd, a fat rumpled man with
a rolling walk who no one could suspect of being able to sneak.

One of the squadmen cleared his throat hesitantly and stepped closer.
“My Lord, is everything . . . ? This is what you planned, isn’t it, my
Lord?”

“Right to the plan, Verdin,” Mat said, patting Pips. He was headfirst in
a sack, and the strings tied tight. He had promised Rand to see Elayne
safe to Caemlyn, and he could not leave without her. And he could not go
off and let Egwene stretch her neck on the chopping block, either. It
might be—Light, how it rankled!—it might be that he was going to have to
take Thom’s advice. Try to keep those bloody women’s bloody heads on
their bloody shoulders by somehow helping them make this whole mad
impossible scheme actually work. While trying to keep his own neck in
one piece, incidentally. And that left out keeping Aviendha from
Elayne’s throat. Well, at the least, he could be around to get them away
when it all fell apart. Small comfort that was. “Everything is just
bloody fine.”

 

Elayne expected to find Aviendha in the waiting room or maybe outside,
but she hardly had to listen to discover why she was in neither place.
There were two topics of conversation among the other Aes Sedai, and
everyone was talking, with papers lying
abandoned on the tables. Mat occupied most tongues; even the servants
and novices bustling about the waiting room paused in running errands to
exchange words about him. He was ta’veren. Was it safe to let a
ta’veren remain in Salidar? Had he really been in the Tower and simply
allowed to go? Was it true he commanded the Dragonsworn army? Was he to
be arrested for the atrocities they had heard of? Was it true he came
from the same village as the Dragon Reborn and the Amyrlin? There were
rumors of two ta’veren connected to the Dragon Reborn; who was the
second, and where could he be found? Maybe Mat Cauthon knew. There
seemed to be as many opinions as there were people to give them.

There were two questions Elayne expected to hear and did not. What did
Mat want in Salidar, and how had Rand known where to send him? Nobody
asked them, but here an Aes Sedai suddenly shifted her shawl as if cold
or gave a start when she realized someone had spoken to her, there a
serving woman stared at nothing in the middle of the floor before coming
to herself with a shake or a novice darted frightened glances at the
sisters. Mat was not quite a cat set among the pigeons, but he came
close. Just the fact that Rand knew where they were seemed enough to set
a chill.

Aviendha occasioned less comment, but the sisters could not help talking
about her, and not only to change the subject. It was not every day that
a wilder simply appeared on her own two feet, especially with such
remarkable strength, and an Aiel besides. That last truly fascinated
every sister. No Aiel had ever trained in the Tower, and few Aes Sedai
had ever entered the Aiel Waste.

A single question sufficed to learn where she was being held. Not held
in name, but Elayne knew how Aes Sedai could be when they wanted a woman
to become a novice.

“She will be in white by nightfall,” Akarrin said confidently. A slim
Brown, she nodded for emphasis with almost every word. The two sisters
with her nodded just as surely.

Tsking under her breath, Elayne hurried into the street. Ahead of her
she could see Nynaeve practically trotting, and looking over her
shoulder so often that she was running into people. Elayne thought about
catching up—she would not mind having company—but she was not about to
run in this heat, concentration or no, and that seemed the only way.
Even so, she did lift her skirts slightly and hurried.

Before she had gone fifty paces, she felt Birgitte coming closer and
turned to see her running down the street. Areina was with her, but she
stopped a little way off and folded her arms
with a scowl. The woman was an impossible little wretch, and she
certainly had not changed her opinions because Elayne really was Aes
Sedai now.

“I thought you should know,” Birgitte said quietly. “I just heard that
when we leave for Ebou Dar, Vandene and Adeleas are going too.”

“I see,” Elayne murmured. It could be that the pair were going to join
Merilille for some reason, though there were already three Aes Sedai at
Tylin’s court, or maybe they had a mission of their own in Ebou Dar. She
did not believe either. Areina had her mind set, and so did the Hall.
Elayne and Nynaeve were to be accompanied by two real Aes Sedai as
chaperones. “She does understand she isn’t going.”

Birgitte glanced the way Elayne was staring, at Areina, then shrugged.
“She understands; she is not happy over it. Myself, I can hardly wait to
be gone.”

Elayne hesitated only a moment. She had promised to keep secrets, which
she did not like, but she had not promised to stop trying to convince
the other woman there was no need, and no point. “Birgitte, Egwene—”

“No!”

“Why not?” Elayne had not had Birgitte for a Warder long before she
decided that when she bonded Rand, she would somehow make him promise to
do as he was told, at least when it was important. Lately she had
decided on another provision. He was going to have to answer her
questions. Birgitte answered when she chose, evaded when she chose and
sometimes just put on a stubborn face, as she did now. “Tell me why not,
and if it’s a good reason, I’ll never ask again.”

At first Birgitte just glowered, but then she took Elayne’s arm and very
nearly hustled her to the mouth of an alley. No one passing by glanced
at them twice, and Areina remained where she was, if darker of face than
before, but Birgitte still looked around carefully and spoke in a
whisper. “Always when the Wheel spun me out, I was born, lived and died
without ever knowing I was bound to the Wheel. I only knew that in
between, in Tel’aran’rhiod. Sometimes I became known, even famous, but
I was like everyone else, not somebody out of a legend. This time I was
ripped out, not spun out. For the first time wearing flesh, I know who I
am. For the first time, other people can know too. Thom and Juilin do;
they say nothing, but I am sure. They don’t look at me the way they do
other people. If I said I was going to climb a glass mountain and kill a
giant with my bare hands, they’d just ask if I needed any help on the
way, and they would not expect me to.”

“I don’t understand,” Elayne said slowly, and
Birgitte sighed and let her head hang.

“I don’t know that I can live up to that. In other lives, I did what I
had to, what seemed to be right, enough for Maerion or Joana or any
woman. Now, I’m Birgitte of the stories. Everyone who knows will
expect. I feel like a featherdancer walking into a Tovan conclave.”

Elayne did not ask; when Birgitte mentioned things from past lives, the
explanations were usually more confusing than ignorance. “That is
nonsense,” she said firmly, taking the other woman by the arms. “I
know, and I certainly don’t expect you to kill any giants. Egwene
doesn’t either. And she already knows.”

“As long as I don’t admit it,” Birgitte muttered, “it is as if she
didn’t. Don’t bother saying that’s nonsense too; I know it is, but that
changes nothing.”

“Then what about this? She is the Amyrlin, and you are a Warder. She
deserves your trust, Birgitte. She needs it.”

“Are you done with her yet?” Areina demanded from a pace away. “If
you’re going to go away and leave me, the least you can do is help me
with my archery the way you said you would.”

“I will think on it,” Birgitte told Elayne quietly. Turning to Areina,
she caught the woman’s braid at the base of her neck. “We will speak of
archery,” she said, pushing her up the street, “but first we will speak
of manners.”

Shaking her head, Elayne suddenly remembered Aviendha and hurried on.
The house was not far.

It took her a moment to recognize Aviendha. Elayne was used to seeing
her in cadin’sor, with her dark reddish hair cut short, not in skirt
and blouse and shawl with hair below her shoulders and held back from
her face by a folded kerchief. At first glance, she did not appear to be
in any difficulty. Sitting rather awkwardly in a chair—Aiel were unused
to chairs—she seemed to be peacefully sipping tea with five sisters in a
circle in the sitting room. Houses that sheltered Aes Sedai had such
things, though Elayne and Nynaeve were still in their cramped little
room. At second glance, Aviendha was casting hunted looks at the Aes
Sedai over the rim of her teacup. There was no time for a third glance;
on sight of Elayne, Aviendha jerked to her feet and dropped her cup to
the cleanswept floor. Elayne had seen few Aiel except in the Stone of
Tear, but she did know they hid their emotions, and Aviendha did it very
well. Only now, naked pain painted her face.

“I’m sorry,” Elayne told the room smoothly, “but
I must take her away from you for a little while. Perhaps you can talk
to her later.”

Several of the sisters hesitated on the brink of protest, though there
should have been none. She was clearly the strongest in the room by far,
except for Aviendha, and none of the Aes Sedai was a Sitter or part of
Sheriam’s council. She was very happy that Myrelle was not there, since
she lived in this house. Elayne had made her choice of Green and been
accepted, only to discover that Myrelle was the head of the Green Ajah
in Salidar. Myrelle, who had not even been Aes Sedai fifteen years. From
things that had been said, Elayne knew there were Greens in Salidar who
had worn the shawl at least fifty, though not a one showed a gray hair.
Had Myrelle been there, all Elayne’s strength would have counted nothing
if the head of her Ajah wanted to retain Aviendha. As it was, only
Shana, a popeyed White who reminded Elayne of a fish, went as far as
opening her mouth further, and she closed it again, though rather
sullenly when Elayne arched an eyebrow at her.

The five were more than a bit tightlipped, but Elayne ignored the
tension. “Thank you,” she said with a smile she did not feel.

Aviendha slung a dark bundle on her back, but hesitated until Elayne
actually asked her to come. In the street, Elayne said, “I apologize for
that. I’ll see it does not happen again.” She could manage that, she was
sure. Or Egwene could, surely. “There are not many places to talk alone,
I’m afraid. My room is rather hot this time of day. We could try to find
some shade, or have some tea, if they haven’t already filled you with
it.”

“Your room.” It was not exactly curt, but plainly Aviendha did not want
to talk, not yet. Abruptly she darted to a passing cart filled with
firewood and snatched out a branch meant to be broken for kindling,
longer than her arm and thicker than her thumb. Rejoining Elayne, she
began peeling it with her belt knife; the sharp blade shaved away
smaller branches like a razor. The pain was gone from her face. She
seemed determined now.

Elayne eyed her sideways as they walked. She would not believe Aviendha
meant her any harm, whatever that lout Mat Cauthon said. Then
again. . . . She knew a little of ji’e’toh; Aviendha had explained
some of it when they were in the Stone together. Maybe Rand had said or
done something. Maybe that bewildering labyrinth of honor and obligation
required Aviendha to. . . . It did not seem possible. But maybe. . . .

When they reached her room, she decided to bring it up first. Facing the
other woman—and very deliberately not embracing saidar—she said, “Mat
claims you have come here to kill me.”

Aviendha blinked. “Wetlanders always put
everything backwards,” she said wonderingly. Laying the stick on the
foot of Nynaeve’s bed, she put the belt knife beside it carefully. “My
nearsister Egwene asked me to watch Rand al’Thor for you, which I
promised to do.” Bundle and shawl went on the floor beside the door. “I
have toh toward her, but greater to you.” Unlacing her blouse, she
pulled it over her head, then pushed her shift to her waist. “I love
Rand al’Thor, and once I let myself lie with him. I have toh, and I
ask that you help me meet it.” Turning her back, she knelt in the small
space available. “You may use the stick or the knife as you wish; the
toh is mine, but the choice is yours.” She tilted up her chin,
stretching her neck. Her eyes were closed. “Whichever you choose, I
accept.”

Elayne thought her knees were going to buckle. Min had said the third
woman would be dangerous, but Aviendha? Wait! She said she. . . . With
Rand! Her hand twitched toward the knife on the bed, and she folded her
arms, trapping her hands. “Get up. And put on your blouse. I am not
going to hit you . . .” Just a few times? She tightened her arms to hold
her hands where they were. “. . . and I am certainly not going to
touch that knife. Please put it away.” She would have handed it to the
other woman, but she was not certain she was safe to touch a weapon
right then. “You have no toh toward me.” She believed that was the
phrase. “I love Rand, but I don’t care that you love him too.” The lie
burned her tongue. Aviendha had actually lain with him?

Twisting around on her knees, Aviendha frowned. “I am not certain I
understand. Are you proposing that we share him? Elayne, we are friends,
I think, but we must be as firstsisters if we are to be sisterwives.
It will take time to know if we can be that.”

Realizing her mouth was hanging open, Elayne closed it. “I suppose it
will,” she said faintly. Min kept saying they would share him, but
certainly not that way! Even the thought was indecent! “It is a little
more complicated than you know. There’s another woman who loves him,
too.”

Aviendha was on her feet so fast she simply seemed to be one place then
the other. “What is her name?” Her green eyes blazed, and she had the
knife in her hand.

Elayne almost laughed. One moment talking about sharing, the next as
fierce as . . . as. . . . As fierce as me, she finished, not at all
pleased with the thought. This could have been worse, much worse. It
could have been Berelain. Since it had to be somebody, it might as well
be Aviendha. And I might as well deal with it instead of kicking my
skirts like a child. Seating herself on the
bed, she folded her hands in her lap. “Do sheathe that and sit down,
Aviendha. And please put on your blouse. I have a great deal to tell
you. There is a woman—my friend, my nearsister—named Min. . . .”

Aviendha did clothe herself, but a considerable time passed before she
sat, and considerably more before Elayne could convince her that they
should not combine to do Min in. She agreed to that, at least.
Reluctantly, she finally said, “I must get to know her. I will not share
him with a woman I cannot love as a firstsister.” That with a studying
look at Elayne, who sighed.

Aviendha would consider sharing him with her. Min was ready to share him
with her. Was she the only one of the three who was normal? By the map
under her mattress, Min should be in Caemlyn soon, or maybe already was.
She did not know what she wanted to have happen there, only that Min
should use her viewings to help him. Which meant Min had to stay close
to him. While Elayne went to Ebou Dar.

“Is anything in life ever simple, Aviendha?”

“Not when men are involved.”

Elayne was not sure which surprised her more, to find that she was
laughing or that Aviendha was.

 


