The Wheel of a Life 


Gathering his sword belt from beside the throne with a flow of Air, and
the scepter too, Rand opened the gateway right there before the dais, a
slash of light that rotated, widening to give a view of an empty
darkpaneled chamber more than six hundred miles from Caemlyn, in the
Sun Palace, the Royal Palace of Cairhien. Set aside for his use this
way, the room held no furnishings, but dark blue floor tiles and
woodpaneled walls glistened from polishing. Windowless, the room was
bright anyway; eight gilded standlamps burned day and night, mirrors
magnifying the oilfed flames. He paused to buckle on his sword while
Sulin and Urien opened the door to the corridor and led veiled Maidens
and Red Shields through before him.

In this case he thought their caution ridiculous. The broad corridor
outside, the only way to reach the room, was already crowded with thirty
or so Far Aldazar Din, Brothers of the Eagle, and nearly two dozen of
Berelain’s Mayeners in redpainted breastplates and rimmed potlike
helmets that came down to the nape of the neck in back. If there was one
place anywhere that Rand knew he needed no Maidens, it was Cairhien,
more so even than Tear.

A Brother of the Eagle was already loping down the hallway by the time
Rand appeared, and a Mayener awkwardly clutching spear and shortsword
as he followed the taller Aielman. In fact, a
small army trailed after the Far Aldazar Din, servants in various
liveries, a Tairen Defender of the Stone in burnished breastplate and
blackandgold coat, a Cairhienin soldier with the front of his head
shaved, his breastplate much more battered than the Tairen’s, two young
Aielwomen in dark heavy skirts and loose white blouses whom Rand thought
he recognized as apprentices to Wise Ones. News of his arrival would
spread quickly. It always did.

At least Alanna was far away. Verin, too, but most of all Alanna. He
still felt her, even at this distance, just a vague impression that she
was somewhere to the west. Like the feel of a hand just a hair from
touching the back of his neck. Was there any way to get free of her? He
seized saidin again for a moment, but that still made no difference.

You never escape the traps you spin yourself. Lews Therin’s murmur
sounded confused. Only a greater power can break a power, and then
you’re trapped again. Trapped forever so you cannot die.

Rand shivered. Sometimes it really did seem that voice was speaking to
him. If only it would make sense once in a while, having it in his head
would be easier.

“I see you, Car’a’carn,” one of the Brothers of the Eagle said. His
gray eyes were on a level with Rand’s, the scar slashing across his nose
stark white against his sundark face. “I am Corman of the Mosaada
Goshien. May you find shade this day.”

Rand had no chance to answer properly before the pinkcheeked Mayener
officer was shouldering in. Well, not exactly shouldering—he was too
slender to shoulder aside a man a head taller and half again as wide,
especially an Aiel, though maybe young enough to think he could—yet he
did squeeze himself in front of Rand next to Corman, tucking under his
arm a crimson helmet with a single slender red plume. “My Lord Dragon, I
am Havien Nurelle, Lord Lieutenant in the Winged Guards”—there were
wings worked on the sides of his helmet—“in service to Berelain sur
Paendrag Paeron, First of Mayene, and at your service also.” Corman gave
him an amused sideways look.

“I see you, Havien Nurelle,” Rand said gravely, and the boy blinked.
Boy? Come to think on it, he might be no younger than Rand. That was a
shock! “If you and Corman will show me—” Suddenly he realized Aviendha
was gone. He nearly broke his back trying to avoid the woman, and the
first time in weeks he agreed to let her near him, she slipped away as
soon as his head turned! “Take me to Berelain and Rhuarc,” he ordered
gruffly. “If they’re not together, take me to whoever is closer, and
find the other.” Running to the Wise Ones, no
doubt, to report on what he had been up to. He would leave the woman
behind here.

What you want is what you cannot have. What you cannot have is what you
want. Lews Therin laughed maniacally. It did not bother Rand as much as
it once had. Not quite as much. What had to be endured, could be.

Discussing who was nearest, Corman and Havien left their men behind, but
they still made quite a procession, with all the Maidens and Red Shields
following close, crowding the squarevaulted hallway. The corridor had a
dark, heavy feel despite lighted standlamps. There was very little
color anywhere, except in occasional tapestries, and the Cairhienin
tried to make up for it by having everything rigidly arranged, whether
embroidered flowers or birds, deer or leopards in a hunt, or nobles in
battle. For the Cairhienin servants who scurried out of the way, livery
usually meant colored stripes on the cuffs and a house badge embroidered
on the breast; sometimes a collar or sleeves in House colors, very
seldom an entire coat or dress. Only upper servants would show more
color. Cairhienin liked order, and disliked flamboyance. An occasional
niche held a golden bowl or a Sea Folk vase, but stark and worked with
straight lines, trying to disguise their curves if they had any.
Whenever the hall gave way to a squarecolumned colonnade, if there was
a garden below, the walks made a precise grid, every flower bed the same
size, shrubs and small trees rigidly pruned and spaced. Had the drought
and heat allowed any flowers, he was sure they too would have bloomed in
straight lines.

Rand wished Dyelin could see those bowls and vases. The Shaido had
carried away whatever they could lift, all the way across Cairhien, and
burned what they could when they could not carry it, but such behavior
violated ji’e’toh. The Aiel who followed Rand and had saved the city
had taken, but by their rules, when they took a place in battle they
were allowed a fifth of what it held and not a spoon more. Bael had
agreed, reluctantly, to forgo even that in Andor, but Rand thought no
one without a list would believe anything had been taken here at all.

For all their discussion, Corman and Havien failed to find either Rhuarc
or Berelain before they were found themselves instead.

The two came to meet Rand alone in one of the colonnades, without
entourage, which only made him feel as though he was leading a parade
himself. Rhuarc in his cadin’sor, gray streaking his dark red hair,
towered over Berelain, a pale, beautiful young woman in a blue and white
dress cut low enough to make Rand clear his throat when she curtsied.
Shoufa looped loosely around his neck, Rhuarc carried no weapon but a
heavy Aiel knife. She wore the Diadem of the
First, a golden hawk in flight, in shining black hair that made waves to
bare shoulders.

Perhaps it was just as well Aviendha had gone; sometimes she had a
violent way toward women she even thought were putting themselves
forward with him.

Suddenly he realized that Lews Therin was humming tunelessly. Something
about it seemed troubling, but what . . . ? Humming. Like a man admiring
a pretty woman who was not aware of him.

Stop that! Rand shouted inside his head. Stop looking through my
eyes! No telling whether he heard—was there someone there to hear?—but
the humming stopped.

Havien went to one knee, but Berelain gestured him to rise almost
absently. “I trust all is well with my Lord Dragon, and with Andor.” She
had the sort of voice that made a man listen. “And with your friends,
Mat Cauthon and Perrin Aybara, as well.”

“All is well,” he told her. She always asked after Mat and Perrin,
however often he told her one was on his way to Tear and the other he
had not seen since before going to the Waste. “And with you?”

Berelain glanced at Rhuarc as they fell in on either side of Rand,
proceeding into the next stretch of corridor. “As well as can be
expected, my Lord Dragon.”

“It is well, Rand al’Thor,” Rhuarc said. There was not much expression
on his face, but then, there seldom was.

Rand knew both understood why he had put Berelain in charge here. Cold
reasons. The first ruler to offer him alliance freely, he could trust
her because she needed him, now more than ever since that alliance, to
keep Tear from Mayene’s throat. The High Lords had always tried to treat
Mayene like a province. Besides, a foreigner from a small nation
hundreds of leagues south, she had no reason to favor one faction over
another in Cairhien, she had no hope of seizing power, and she knew the
running of a country. Hard reasons. Given how Aiel felt about Cairhienin
and Cairhienin about Aiel, putting Rhuarc in charge would have led to
bloodshed, and Cairhien had had enough of that.

The arrangement seemed to be working out well. As with Semaradrid and
Weiramon in Tear, the Cairhienin accepted a Mayener as governor as much
because she was not Aiel as because Rand appointed her. Berelain did
know what she was doing, and she at least listened to advice offered by
Rhuarc, speaking for the clan chiefs remaining in Cairhien. No doubt she
had to deal with the Wise Ones as well—they would give up meddling,
which they did not see as such, a day after Aes
Sedai did—but she had not mentioned them so far.

“And Egwene?” Rand said. “Is she any better?”

Berelain’s lips compressed slightly. She did not like Egwene. But then,
Egwene did not like her. No reason for it, that he knew, but there it
was.

Rhuarc spread his hands. “So far as Amys tells me.” As well as being a
Wise One, Amys was his wife. One of his wives; he had two, one of the
odder Aiel customs among many Rand found odd. “She says Egwene yet needs
rest, light exercise, plenty of food and fresh air. I think she takes
walks in the cool of the day.” Berelain gave him a wry look; the faint
sheen of perspiration on her face did not detract from her beauty, but
of course Rhuarc was not sweating at all.

“I would like to see her. If the Wise Ones permit,” Rand added. The Wise
Ones were as jealous of their prerogatives as any Aes Sedai he had ever
met, making sure of them with sept chiefs, clan chiefs and perhaps most
of all with the Car’a’carn. “But first we. . . .”

A noise had been catching the edge of hearing as they approached another
place where one wall of the corridor was replaced by balustraded
columns. The clatter of practice swords. He glanced down in passing. At
least that was his intention. What he saw in the stonepaved courtyard
below stilled his tongue and stopped his feet. Under the eye of a
stiffbacked Cairhienin in a plain gray coat, a dozen sweatdrenched
women flailed away in pairs, some wearing riding dresses with divided
skirts, some men’s coats and breeches. Most were awkward in the forms if
vigorous, while others flowed from stance to stance smoothly yet swung
the bundledlathe blades hesitantly. All wore grim determination like a
cloak, though grimness was likely to break into rueful laughter when one
realized she had made a mistake.

The stiffbacked fellow clapped his hands, and the panting women leaned
on their practice swords, some working arms clearly unused to this. From
beyond Rand’s sight servants darted out, bowing and curtsying right and
left as they proffered trays with pitchers and cups. But if they were
servants, their livery was odd for Cairhien. They wore white. Dresses or
coats and breeches, all pure white.

“What is that?” he asked. Rhuarc made a disgusted sound.

“Some of the Cairhienin women are quite impressed with the Maidens,”
Berelain said, smiling. “They want to be Maidens. Only, of the sword, I
suppose, not the spear.” Sulin stiffened indignantly, and handtalk
flashed among the Maidens; the gestures seemed outraged. “These are
daughters of noble Houses,” Berelain went on. “I
let them stay here because their parents would not allow this. There are
nearly a dozen schools in the city now that will teach the sword to
women, but many need to sneak away to attend. It is not only women, of
course. The younger Cairhienin in general seem very impressed with the
Aiel. They are adopting ji’e’toh.”

“They are mangling it,” Rhuarc growled. “Many ask about our ways, and
who would not teach one who would learn what is proper? Even a
treekiller.” He looked ready to spit. “But they take what they are told
and change it.”

“Not change, really,” Berelain protested. “Only adapt, I think.”
Rhuarc’s eyebrows rose a fraction, and she sighed. Havien’s face was a
picture of affront, seeing his ruler challenged. Neither Rhuarc nor
Berelain noticed, they were intent on Rand. He had the feeling this was
an argument the pair had had often.

“They change it,” Rhuarc repeated deliberately. “Those fools down there
in white claim to be gai’shain. Gai’shain!” The other Aielmen
muttered; handtalk flickered among the Maidens again. Havien began to
look a trifle uneasy. “What battle or raid were they taken in? What
toh have they incurred? You confirmed my ban on fighting in the city,
Berelain Paeron, yet they fight duels wherever they think they’ll not be
found, and the loser puts on white. If one strikes another while both
are armed, the one struck pleads for a duel, and if it is refused, puts
on white. What has that to do with honor or obligation? They change
everything, and do things to make a Sharaman blush. It should be
stopped, Rand al’Thor.”

Berelain’s jaw firmed stubbornly, her hands tightening to fists on her
skirts. “Young men always fight.” Her tone was condescending enough that
you might almost have forgotten she was young herself. “But since they
began this, not one has died in a duel. Not one. That alone is worth
letting them go on. Besides which, I have faced down fathers and
mothers, some powerful, who wanted their daughters sent home. I will not
deny those young women what I promised them.”

“Keep them if you wish,” Rhuarc said. “Let them learn the sword, if
they wish. But let them stop claiming to follow ji’e’toh. Let there be
an end to them putting on white and claiming to be gai’shain. What
they do offends.” His chill blue eyes were fixed on Berelain, but her
large dark eyes remained steady on Rand.

He hesitated only a moment. He thought he understood what drove the
younger Cairhienin to ji’e’toh. Twice conquered by Aiel in twentyodd
years, they had to wonder whether the secret lay there. Or maybe they
thought their defeats just showed that the Aiel
way was better. Clearly the Aiel were upset by what they saw as a
mockery of their beliefs, but in truth, some of the ways Aiel became
gai’shain seemed no less peculiar. For instance, speaking to a man of
his fatherinlaw or to a woman of her motherinlaw—secondfather and
secondmother, in the Aiel way—was considered hostile enough to justify
drawing weapons unless they had mentioned them first. If the offended
party instead touched you after you spoke, under ji’e’toh it was the
same as touching an armed enemy without harming him. That gained much
ji and incurred much toh, but the one touched could demand to be
made gai’shain to lessen the other’s honor and their own obligation.
By ji’e’toh, a proper demand to be made gai’shain had to be honored,
so a man or woman could end up gai’shain for mentioning somebody’s
motherinlaw. Hardly less foolish than what these Cairhienin were
doing. Really it came down to one thing, though. He had put Berelain in
charge; he had to support her. It was as simple as that. “Cairhienin
offend you by being Cairhienin, Rhuarc. Leave them be. Who knows, maybe
they will eventually learn enough that you won’t have to hate them
anymore.”

Rhuarc grunted sourly, and Berelain smiled. To Rand’s surprise, for one
moment she seemed about to put her tongue out at the Aielman. Only his
imagination, of course. She was only a few years older than himself, but
she had been ruling Mayene while he was still guarding sheep in the Two
Rivers.

Sending Corman and Havien back to their guard, Rand moved on, with
Rhuarc and Berelain to either side and the rest following close. A
parade. All it needed was drums and trumpets.

The clatter of practice swords started up again behind him. Another
change, however small. Even Moiraine, who had long studied the
Prophecies of the Dragon, had not known whether his Breaking the World
again meant he would bring on a new Age, but he was certainly bringing
changes, one way and another. As many by accident, it seemed, as on
purpose.

When they reached the door of the study Berelain and Rhuarc
shared—rising suns decorated the long panels of dark polished wood,
indicating some royal use once—Rand stopped, turning to Sulin and Urien.
If he could not dispense with all these guards here, there was nowhere
he could. “I mean to return to Caemlyn an hour or so after sunrise
tomorrow. Until then, visit the tents, see your friends, and try not to
start any blood feuds. If you insist, two of you can hang about to
protect me from mice; I don’t think anything larger will jump out at me
here.”

Urien grinned slightly and nodded, though he did
gesture about headhigh to a Cairhienin and murmur, “The mice can be big
here.”

For an instant Rand thought Sulin meant to argue. Her flat stare lasted
only a moment, though, before she nodded. Still tightmouthed, however.
Doubtless he would hear the argument in full once there were only
Maidens to hear.

A large room, the study presented sharp contrasts even at his second
sight of it. On the high workedplaster ceiling, straight lines and
sharp angles made elaborately repeating patterns, and around the walls
as well as on a wide fireplace faced with deep blue marble. A massive
table stood in the middle of the floor, covered with papers and maps,
marking a boundary of sorts. The two tall narrow windows to one side of
the fireplace held clay pots on deep stools, filled with small plants
that showed a few tiny redandwhite blossoms. On that side of the table
a long wall hanging showed ships at sea, and men hauling nets filled
with oilfish, the source of Mayene’s wealth. An embroidery hoop, with
needle and red thread dangling from a piece of halffinished work, sat
on a highbacked chair wide enough for Berelain to curl up in if she
wished. There was a single carpet on the floor, in flowerlike patterns
of gold and red and blue, and a small table beside the chair held a
silver wine pitcher and goblets on a silver tray, as well as a slim book
bound in red with a goldworked piece of leather marking Berelain’s
place.

The floor on the other side of the table was layered in brightly colored
rugs, with tasseled cushions of red and blue and green scattered about.
A tabac pouch, a shortstemmed pipe, and a pair of tongs sat beside a
covered brass bowl atop a small brassbound chest, while a slightly
larger chest, strapped with iron, held an ivory carving of a gawky
animal Rand doubted really existed. Two dozen books of all sizes, from
small enough to fit a coat pocket to large enough that even Rhuarc must
need both hands to pick them up, made a neat row across the floor along
the wall. Aiel made everything in the Waste that they needed except
books; peddlers had made fortunes among Aiel hauling nothing but books.

“Now,” Rand said when the door was closed, leaving him alone with Rhuarc
and Berelain, “how are things really?”

“As I said,” Berelain replied. “As well as can be expected. There is
more talk of Caraline Damodred and Toram Riatin in the streets, but most
people are too tired to want another war for a time.”

“It is said ten thousand Andormen soldiers have joined them.” Rhuarc
began thumbing his pipe full. “Rumor always multiplies by ten when not
twenty, yet it is troubling if true. The scouts
say their numbers are not large, but left to grow they could be more
than an annoyance. The yellowfly is almost too small to see, but if you
leave its egg in your skin, you will lose an arm or leg before it
hatches—if it does not kill you.”

Rand grunted noncommittally. Darlin’s rebellion in Tear was not the only
one he had to face. House Riatin and House Damodred, the last two to
hold the Sun Throne, had been bitter rivals before Rand appeared, and
likely would be again if he disappeared. Now they had put rivalry
aside—on the surface at least; what went on below the surface with
Cairhienin could be something else entirely—and, like Darlin, meant to
gather strength somewhere Toram and Caraline thought safe. In their
case, the foothills of the Spine of the World, as far from the city as
they could be and remain in the country. They had gathered the same mix
as Darlin, nobles mainly of middle rank, displaced country folk, some
outright mercenaries and perhaps a few former brigands. Niall’s hand
might be there, as well, as it was with Darlin.

Those foothills were not nearly so impenetrable as Haddon Mirk, but Rand
held his hand: He had too many enemies in too many places. If he paused
to swat Rhuarc’s yellowfly here, he might find a leopard on his back
somewhere else. He had it in mind to take the leopard first. If only he
knew where all the other leopards were.

“What of the Shaido?” he asked, setting the Dragon Scepter down on a
halfunrolled map. It showed the north of Cairhien, and the mountains
called Kinslayer’s Dagger. The Shaido might not be as big a leopard as
Sammael, but they were a sight bigger than High Lord Darlin or Lady
Caraline. Berelain handed him a goblet of wine, and he thanked her.
“Have the Wise Ones said anything at all about Sevanna’s intentions?”

He would have thought at least one or two could listen and look around
just a little when she journeyed up to Kinslayer’s Dagger. He would
wager the Shaido Wise Ones did when they came below the River Gaelin. He
said neither thing, of course. The Shaido might have abandoned
ji’e’toh, but Rhuarc had a traditional Aiel view of spying. The Wise
Ones’ views were another thing again, though exactly what could be hard
to pin down.

“They say the Shaido are building holds.” Rhuarc paused, using a pair of
tongs to hold a hot coal from the sandfilled brass bowl over his pipe.
When he had it puffed alight, he went on. “They do not think the Shaido
ever mean to return to the Threefold Land. Nor do I.”

Rand scrubbed his free hand through his hair. Caraline and Toram
festering, and the Shaido settling in this side
of the Dragonwall. A far more dangerous brew than Darlin. And Alanna’s
unseen finger seemed on the point of touching him. “Is there any other
good news?”

“There is fighting in Shamara,” Rhuarc said around his pipestem.

“Where?” Rand asked.

“Shamara. Or Shara. They give many names for their land. Co’dansin,
Tomaka, Kigali, others. Any could be true, or none. They lie without
thought, those people. Unwind every bolt of silk you trade for, or find
that only the outside is silk. And if the next time in the tradehold you
happen to find the man who traded with you, he will deny seeing you
before, or coming to trade before. If you press it, the others kill him
to appease you, then say only he could do anything concerning the silk,
and try to trade you water as wine.”

“Why is fighting in Shara good news?” Rand asked softly. He did not
really want to hear the answer. Berelain was listening with interest; no
one except the Aiel and the Sea Folk knew much more of the closed lands
beyond the Waste than that ivory and silk came from there. That, and the
tales in The Travels of Jain Farstrider, which were probably too
fanciful to be true. Though come to think of it, Rand did remember the
lying being mentioned, and the different names, except the examples
Farstrider had given matched none of Rhuarc’s as far as he could recall.

“There is never fighting in Shara, Rand al’Thor. It is said the Trolloc
Wars infested them”—Trollocs had entered the Aiel Waste too; since then
the Trolloc name for the Aiel Waste was the Dying Ground—“but if there
has been one battle since, no word of it has come to the tradeholds. Not
much word of anything outside the holdwalls does come inside. They say
their land has always been one, not many as here, always at peace. When
you came from Rhuidean as the Car’a’carn, word of you spread, and of
your title among the wetlanders here. The Dragon Reborn. Word traveled
to the tradeholds along the Great Rift and the Cliffs of Dawn.” Rhuarc’s
eyes were calm and steady; this did not trouble him. “Now word comes
back across the Threefold Land. There is fighting in Shara, and
Sharamen in the tradeholds ask when the Dragon Reborn will Break the
World.”

Suddenly the wine tasted sour. Another place like Tarabon and Arad
Doman, torn just by hearing of him. How far did the ripples spread? Were
there wars he would never hear of in lands he would never hear of,
because of him?

Death rides on my shoulder, Lews Therin muttered. Death walks in my
footsteps. I am death.

Shuddering, Rand set his goblet on the table.
How much did the Prophecies demand in all those tantalizing hints and
grandly roundabout verses? Was he supposed to add Shara, or whatever it
was really called, to Cairhien and the rest? The entire world? How, when
he could not even hold Tear or Cairhien completely? It would take more
than one man’s lifetime. Andor. If he was meant to rip every other land
apart, rip the whole world, he would hold Andor safe for Elayne.
Somehow.

“Shara, or whatever it’s called, is a long way from here. One step at a
time, and Sammael is the first step.”

“Sammael,” Rhuarc agreed. Berelain shivered, and emptied her goblet.

For a time they talked of the Aiel who were still moving south. Rand
intended the hammer being made in Tear to be clearly big enough to smash
anything Sammael could put in its way. Rhuarc seemed content; it was
Berelain who complained that more needed to be kept in Cairhien. Until
Rhuarc shushed her. She muttered something about him being too stubborn
for his own good, but she went on to the efforts to resettle farmers on
the land. She thought by next year there would be no need for grain from
Tear. If the drought ever broke. If it did not, Tear would not be
supplying grain to itself, much less anywhere else. The first tendrils
of trade were beginning to reappear. Merchants had begun coming in from
Andor and Tear and Murandy, down from the Borderlands. A Sea Folk ship
had even dropped anchor in the river that very morning, which she found
strange, so far from the sea, but welcome.

Berelain’s face took on an intensity, and her voice a brisk tone, as she
moved around the table to take up this sheaf of papers or that,
discussing what Cairhien needed to buy and what it could afford to buy,
what it had to sell now and what it would have in six months, in a year.
Depending on the weather, of course. She brushed by that as if it was of
no matter, though giving Rand a level look that said he was the Dragon
Reborn and if there was any way to stop the heat, he should find it.
Rand had seen her meltingly seductive, he had seen her frightened,
defiant, wrapped in arrogance, but never like this. She seemed a
different woman altogether. Rhuarc, seated on one of his cushions
puffing on his pipe, appeared amused as he watched her.

“. . . this school of yours might do some good,” she said, frowning at a
long sheet covered in a precise hand, “if they would stop thinking of
new things long enough to make what they have already thought of.” She
tapped her lips with a finger, peering at nothing thoughtfully. “You say
give them what gold they ask, but if you would let me hold back unless
they actually—”

Jalani put her plump face in at the door—Aiel
seemed not to understand knocking—and said, “Mangin is here to speak
with Rhuarc and you, Rand al’Thor.”

“Tell him I’ll be happy to talk with him later—” Rand got that far
before Rhuarc broke in quietly.

“You should speak with him now, Rand al’Thor.” The clan chief’s face
looked grave; Berelain had replaced the long paper on the table and was
studying the floor.

“Very, well,” Rand said slowly.

Jalani’s head vanished, and Mangin came in. Taller than Rand, he had
been one of those who crossed the Dragonwall in search of He Who Comes
With the Dawn, one of the handful who took the Stone of Tear. “Six days
ago I killed a man,” he began without preamble, “a treekiller, and I
must know if I have toh to you, Rand al’Thor.”

“To me?” Rand said. “You can defend yourself, Mangin; Light, you know
tha—” For a moment he was silent, meeting gray eyes that were sober but
certainly not afraid. Curious, maybe. Rhuarc’s face told him nothing;
Berelain was still not meeting his gaze. “He did attack you, didn’t he?”

Mangin shook his head slightly. “I saw that he deserved to die, so I
killed him.” He said it conversationally; he saw the drains needed
cleaning, so he cleaned them. “But you have said we cannot kill the
oathbreakers except in battle, or if they attack us. Do I have toh
toward you now?”

Rand remembered what he had said. . . . him will I hang. His chest
felt tight. “Why did he deserve to die?”

“He wore what he had no right to,” Mangin replied.

“Wore what? What did he wear, Mangin?”

Rhuarc answered, touching his left forearm. “This.” He meant the Dragon
coiled around his arm. Clan chiefs did not display them often, or even
speak of them; almost everything about the markings were shrouded in
mystery, and the chiefs were content to leave it so. “It was a thing of
needles and inks, of course.” A tattoo.

“He was pretending to be a clan chief?” Rand realized he was searching
for an excuse. . . . him will I hang. Mangin had been one of the first
to follow him.

“No,” Mangin said. “He was drinking, and showing off what he should not
have had. I see your eyes, Rand al’Thor.” He grinned suddenly. “It is a
puzzle. I was right to kill him, but now I have toh to you.”

“You were wrong to kill him. You know the penalty for murder.”

“A rope around the neck, as these wetlanders use.” Mangin nodded
thoughtfully. “Tell me where and when; I will be
there. May you find water and shade today, Rand al’Thor.”

“May you find water and shade, Mangin,” Rand told him sadly.

“I suppose,” Berelain said when the door closed behind Mangin, “that he
really will walk to his own hanging of his own accord. Oh, don’t look at
me that way, Rhuarc. I don’t mean to impugn him, or Aiel honor.”

“Six days,” Rand growled, rounding on her. “You knew why he was here,
both of you. Six days ago, and you left it to me. Murder is murder,
Berelain.”

She drew herself up regally, but she sounded defensive. “I am not used
to men coming to me and saying they have just committed murder. Bloody
ji’e’toh. Bloody Aielmen and their bloody honor.” The curses sounded
odd coming from her mouth.

“You have no cause to be angry with her, Rand al’Thor,” Rhuarc put in.
“Mangin’s toh is to you, not to her. Or to me.”

“His toh was to the man he murdered,” Rand said coldly. Rhuarc looked
shocked. “The next time somebody commits murder, don’t wait for me. You
follow the law!” That way, perhaps he would not have to pass sentence
again on a man he knew and liked. He would if he had to. He knew that,
and it saddened him. What had he become?

The wheel of a man’s life, Lews Therin murmured. No mercy. No pity.

 




