Leaning on the Knife 


Climbing out of the big copper tub with a length of white toweling
wrapped around her head, Nynaeve dried slowly. The plump grayhaired
serving woman tried to dress her, but Nynaeve sent her away, ignoring
the startled looks and protests, and did it herself, with great care,
examining the dark green dress with its wide collar of pale Merada lace
in the tall narrow standmirror. Lan’s heavy gold ring lay in her
pouch—best not to think of that—alongside one of the twisted ring
ter’angreal, and the Great Serpent gleamed golden around the third
finger of her right hand. Her right hand. Best not to think of that
either.

The high ceiling was quite pleasantly painted in blue sky and white
clouds, and if the furnishings stood on disconcertingly large gilded
lion feet and the slim bedposts and chair legs and everything else
vertical had too much fluting and gilding for her taste, it was still a
more comfortable room than she had stayed in for some considerable time.
A pleasant room. Moderately cool. What she was trying to do was calm
herself.

It did not work, of course. She had felt saidar being woven, and as
soon as she stepped from her bedchamber she saw the ward against
eavesdropping Elayne had made and tied off around the sitting room.
Birgitte and Aviendha were already there as well, all of them freshly
scrubbed and dressed.

In what Birgitte claimed was a rather ordinary arrangement here, four
bedchambers flanked the one sitting room, which
also had a ceiling painted as sky and clouds. Four tall arched windows
opened onto a long balcony of whitepainted wrought iron, so intricate
they could peer down from it unseen at the Mol Hara Square in front of
the palace. A faint breeze stirred through the windows, carrying the
salt scent of the sea, and for a wonder it actually was a little cool.
Anger interfered with her concentration, and Nynaeve had been feeling
the heat since shortly after arriving in the Tarasin Palace.

Thom and Juilin had been given a room somewhere deep in the servants’
quarters, which in truth seemed to irritate Elayne more than it did
either of the men. Thom had actually laughed. But then, he could afford
to.

“Have some of this excellent tea, Nynaeve,” Elayne said, laying a white
napkin across gleaming blue silk skirts. Like everything else in the
sitting room, her wide chair had gilded balls for feet, and more
standing along the tall back above her head. Aviendha sat by her side,
but on the floor, legs folded beneath the skirt of a highnecked dress
that almost matched the pale green tile. Her labyrinthine silver
necklace went very well with the dress. Nynaeve did not think she had
seen the Aiel woman sit in a chair once. People had certainly stared at
her in those two inns.

“Mint and cloudberries,” Birgitte added to Elayne’s offer, filling
another delicate golden porcelain cup without waiting. Birgitte wore
wide gray trousers and a short blue coat. She did wear dresses
occasionally, but her taste made Nynaeve glad it was seldom. All three
of them dressed and primped, and no one wanted them.

The silver pitcher glistened damply, and the tea was cool and
refreshing. Nynaeve admired Elayne’s face, cool and dry. She herself
already felt moist again despite the breeze. “I must say,” she muttered,
“I expected a different reception.”

“Did you really?” Elayne asked. “After the way Vandene and Adeleas
treated us?”

Nynaeve sighed. “Very well, then, I hoped. I am finally Aes Sedai,
really Aes Sedai, and nobody seems to believe it. I truly hoped leaving
Salidar would make a difference.”

Their meeting with Merilille Ceandevin had not gone well. Their
presentation to her, in truth. Vandene’s introduction had been almost
perfunctory, and then they were dismissed, sent away so the real Aes
Sedai could talk. Merilille had said she was sure they wanted to freshen
up, but it was a dismissal, with a choice of going like obedient
Accepted or refusing like sulky children. Just
remembering ruined all Nynaeve’s attempts at calm; sweat began to run
down her face.

Being sent away was not the worst of it, really. Merilille was a
slender, palely elegant Cairhienin with glossy black hair and large
liquid eyes, a Gray who looked as if nothing had ever surprised her and
nothing ever could. Only those dark eyes had gone wide when told Nynaeve
and Elayne were Aes Sedai, and wider still on learning Egwene was the
Amyrlin Seat. Birgitte as a Warder clearly astounded her, though by that
time she managed to hold her reaction to one stare and a brief
tightening of her lips. Aviendha came out of it the easiest; Merilille
gave her only a murmur about how much she would enjoy being a novice.
Then came the dismissal. And a suggestion, more in the nature of a
command, that they spend several days recuperating from the rigors
of their journey.

Nynaeve plucked her handkerchief from her sleeve and fanned her face
uselessly with the lacy square. “I still think they’re hiding
something.”

“Really, Nynaeve,” Elayne said, shaking her head. “I do not like how
we’re treated any more than you, but you are trying to make a bull out
of a mouse. If Vandene and Adeleas want to look for runaways, let them.
Would you rather have them trying to take over looking for the bowl?”
During the whole journey they had hardly mentioned the ter’angreal
they sought, for fear the pair would do just that.

Whether they would have or not, Nynaeve still thought they were hiding
things. Elayne just did not want to admit it. Adeleas had not realized
that Nynaeve had overheard that remark about looking for runaways once
they reached Ebou Dar, and when Nynaeve asked whether they really
expected to find any, Vandene replied just a bit too quickly that they
always kept an eye out for young women who had run from the Tower. It
did not make sense. No one had run away from Salidar, but novices did
run sometimes—the life was hard, especially with years of obedience to
look forward to before you could even think of thinking for yourself—and
an occasional Accepted who had begun to despair of ever reaching the
shawl tried to slip away, yet even Nynaeve knew that few made it off the
island of Tar Valon and almost all were dragged back. You could be put
out at any time, for not being strong enough to go on, for refusing or
failing your test for Accepted or the test for Aes Sedai that she and
Elayne had slipped by, but leaving was never your decision unless you
wore the shawl.

So if successful runaways were so rare, why did Vandene and Adeleas
think they might find one in Ebou Dar, and why had they shut up like
mussels when she asked? She was afraid she knew the answer to the last,
anyway. Not tugging her braid required
considerable selfcontrol. She thought she was becoming better at that.

“At least Mat finally knows we’re Aes Sedai,” she growled. At least she
could deal with him now. Let him try anything, and he would see what it
was like being thumped with everything she could wrap a flow around. “He
had better.”

“Is that why you’ve been avoiding him like a Cheltan flinching from the
tax collector?” Birgitte asked with a grin, and Nynaeve felt her face
coloring. She thought she had hidden her feelings better than that.

“He is very irritating, even for a man,” Aviendha murmured. “You must
have traveled very far, Birgitte. You often speak of places I have never
heard of. One day I would like to travel the wetlands and see all these
strange places. Where is this . . . Cheltan? Chelta?”

That wiped Birgitte’s grin right off; wherever it was, it might be dead
a thousand years, or since an earlier Age altogether. Her and her
slipping ancient places and things into the conversation. Nynaeve wished
she had been there to see her admit to Egwene what Egwene already knew.
Egwene had grown impressively forceful in her time with the Aiel, and
put up with little she considered nonsense. Birgitte had actually come
back looking chastened.

Even so, Nynaeve liked Birgitte rather better than she did Aviendha, who
made her very uneasy at times with her hard stares and bloodthirsty
talk. And however irritating Birgitte could be, Nynaeve had promised to
help her keep her secret.

“Mat . . . threatened me,” she said hurriedly. It was the first way that
came to mind to divert Aviendha and the last thing she wanted anyone
else to know. Her cheeks heated all over again. Elayne actually smiled,
though she had the grace to hide it in her teacup. “Not like that,”
Nynaeve added when Aviendha began frowning and fingering her belt knife.
The Aiel woman seemed to think the proper response to everything was a
violent one. “It was just. . . .” Aviendha and Birgitte looked at her,
all ears and interest. “He just said. . . .” As she had rescued
Birgitte, Elayne rescued her.

“I really think that is enough about Master Cauthon,” Elayne said
firmly. “He is only here to pull him out of Egwene’s hair, and I can
puzzle out what to do about the ter’angreal later.” Her lips
compressed for a moment. She had not been happy when Vandene and Adeleas
began channeling at Mat without so much as a byyourleave, and even
less when he slipped off to that inn. There had been nothing she could
do, of course. She claimed that by only telling him to do what he had to
do anyway in the beginning, she could bring him
into the habit. Well, good luck to her. “He is the least important part
of this trip,” she said, even more firmly.

“Yes.” Nynaeve just kept the relief out of her voice. “Yes, the bowl is
what’s important.”

“I suggest I scout about first,” Birgitte said. “Ebou Dar seems rougher
than I remember, and the district you describe could be rougher than
. . .” She did not quite glance at Aviendha. “. . . Than the rest of the
city,” she finished with a sigh.

“If there is scouting to be done,” Aviendha put in eagerly, “I wish to
be part of it. I have a cadin’sor.”

“A scout is supposed to blend in,” Elayne said gently. “I think we
should find Ebou Dari dress for all of us; then we can all search
together from the start, and none of us will stand out. Though Nynaeve
will have the easiest time of it,” she added, smiling at Birgitte and
Aviendha. The Ebou Dari they had seen so far all had dark hair, and most
seemed to have nearly black eyes.

Aviendha exhaled glumly, and Nynaeve felt like echoing her, thinking of
those deep necklines. Very deep, however narrow. Birgitte actually
grinned; the woman had no shame at all.

Before the discussion could go any further, a woman with short black
hair, in the livery of House Mitsobar, entered without knocking, which
Nynaeve thought rude no matter what Elayne said was proper for servants.
Her dress was white, the skirt sewn up to the knee on the left side to
expose a green petticoat, with a snug bodice embroidered on the left
breast with a green Anchor and Sword. Even the livery’s narrow neckline
plunged as far as Nynaeve recalled. Plump and somewhere in her middle
years, the woman hesitated, then curtsied and addressed herself to
everyone. “Queen Tylin wishes to see the three Aes Sedai, if it pleases
them.”

Nynaeve exchanged wondering looks with Elayne and the others.

“There are only two of us Aes Sedai here,” Elayne said after a moment.
“Perhaps you meant to go to Merilille?”

“I was directed to this apartment . . . Aes Sedai.” The pause was barely
long enough to notice, and the woman just missed turning the title into
a question.

Elayne rose, smoothing her skirts; no stranger would suspect that that
smooth face hid anger, but there was a hint of tightness at the corners
of eyes and mouth. “Shall we go, then? Nynaeve? Aviendha? Birgitte?”

“I am not Aes Sedai, Elayne,” Aviendha said, and the serving woman put
in hurriedly, “I was told only the Aes Sedai.”

“Aviendha and I could have a look around the
city while you see the Queen,” Birgitte said before Elayne could open
her mouth. Aviendha’s face lit up.

Elayne gave the pair of them a sharp look, then sighed. “Well, at least
be careful. Nynaeve, are you coming, or do you want to see the city
too?” That last was in a dry tone, with another glance at Birgitte.

“Oh, I would not miss it,” Nynaeve told her. “It will be good to finally
meet someone who thinks. . . .” She could not finish it with the maid
there. “We should not keep the Queen waiting.”

“Oh, no,” the liveried woman said. “It’d be as much as my ears are
worth.”

However much her ears were worth, it took some time to walk through the
palace corridors. As though to make up for all the white outside, the
palace was full of color. In one corridor the ceiling was painted green
and the walls blue, in another the walls were yellow and the ceiling
pale rose. The floor tiles were diamonds of red and black and white, or
blue and yellow, or almost any combination in any shade. There were very
few tapestries, usually scenes of the sea, but a good many tall vases of
golden Sea Folk porcelain stood in arched niches, and also large pieces
of carved crystal, statuettes and vases and bowls, that caught Elayne’s
eye as well as Nynaeve’s.

Of course servants scurried about everywhere, the men’s version of the
livery entailing white breeches and a long green vest over a white shirt
with wide, pleated sleeves, but before they had gone very far Nynaeve
saw someone striding toward them who made her stop and catch Elayne’s
arm. It was Jaichim Carridin. She did not take her eyes off the tall
graying man as he strode on past them, those cruel deepset eyes never
turning in their direction, white cloak spreading behind him. Sweat
covered his face, but he ignored it as he ignored them.

“What is he doing here?” Nynaeve demanded. That man had unleashed
slaughter in Tanchico, and the Light only knew where else.

The serving woman looked at her quizzically. “Why, the Children of the
Light sent an embassy too, months gone. The Queen . . . Aes Sedai?”
Again, that hesitation.

Elayne managed to nod graciously, but Nynaeve could not blank the
asperity from her own voice. “Then we should not keep her waiting.” One
thing Merilille had let slip about this Tylin was that she was a
punctilious woman, stiffly formal. But if she too started doubting they
were Aes Sedai, Nynaeve was in just the mood to prove it.

The serving woman left them in a large room with
a pale blue ceiling and yellow walls, where a row of tall triplearched
windows gave onto a long wroughtiron balcony and let in a quite
comfortable salty breeze, and before the Queen Nynaeve and Elayne made
their curtsies, proper for Aes Sedai to ruler, a slight dip, a tiny bow
of the head.

Tylin was a most impressive woman. No taller than Nynaeve, she stood
with a regal bearing that Elayne would have had to strain to match on
her best day. She should have replied to their courtesies with the same,
but she did not. Instead her large black eyes examined them with
imperious intensity.

Nynaeve returned the favor as well as she could. Waves of glossy black
hair, gray at the temples, hung well below Tylin’s shoulders, framing a
face that was handsome if not unlined. Shockingly, there were two scars
on the woman’s cheeks, fine and so old they had all but vanished. Of
course, she did have one of those curved knives stuck through a belt of
woven gold, with hilt and scabbard encrusted in gems, Nynaeve was sure
it must be for show. Tylin’s blue silk dress was certainly nothing
anyone could wear fighting a duel, with falls of snowy lace that would
nearly hide her fingers if she lowered her hands, and skirts drawn up
above her knees in front to expose layers of green and white silk
petticoats and trailing behind her a pace or more. The bodice, trimmed
in the same lace, was snug enough that Nynaeve was not sure whether
sitting in it or standing would be more uncomfortable. A collar of woven
gold fastened around the gown’s high neck, which put more lace under her
chin, supported a whitesheathed marriage knife hanging hiltdown into
an oval cutout that easily equalled any of those deep necklines.

“You two must be Elayne and Nynaeve.” Tylin took a chair carved to
resemble bamboo, though covered in gilt, and arranged her skirts
carefully without taking her eyes from them. Her voice was deep,
melodious and commanding. “I understood there was a third. Aviendha?”

Nynaeve exchanged glances with Elayne. There had been no invitation for
them to sit, not so much as a flicker of eyes toward a chair. “She is
not Aes Sedai,” Elayne began calmly.

Tylin spoke before she could say more. “And you are? You’ve seen
eighteen winters at most, Elayne. And you, Nynaeve, staring at me like a
cat with its tail caught, how many have you seen? Twentytwo?
Twentythree perhaps? Stab my liver! I visited Tar Valon once, and the
White Tower. I doubt any woman your age has ever worn that ring on her
right hand.”

“Twentysix!” Nynaeve snapped. With a good part of the Women’s
Circle back in Emond’s Field thinking she was
too young to be Wisdom, it had become habit with her to flourish every
naming day she could claim. “I am twentysix and an Aes Sedai of the
Yellow Ajah.” She still felt a thrill of pride saying that. “Elayne may
be eighteen, but she is Aes Sedai as well, and Green Ajah. Do you think
Merilille or Vandene would let us wear these rings as a joke? A good
many things have changed, Tylin. The Amyrlin Seat, Egwene al’Vere, is no
older than Elayne.”

“Is she?” Tylin said in a flat voice. “I was not told that. When the Aes
Sedai who counseled me from the day I took the throne, and my father
before me, abruptly leaves for the Tower without explanation, and I then
learn that rumors of a Tower divided are true; when Dragonsworn seem to
spring out of the ground; when an Amyrlin is chosen to oppose Elaida and
an army gathered under one of the great captains, inside Altara, before
I hear of it—when all of that has happened, you cannot expect me to be
enamored of surprises.”

Nynaeve hoped her face did not look as sickly as she felt. Why could she
not learn to hold her tongue occasionally? Abruptly she realized she
could no longer sense the True Source; anger and embarrassment did not
go together very well. It was probably to the good. If she could
channel, she might make an even bigger fool of herself.

Elayne moved to smooth things over without a pause. “I know you have
heard this before,” she told Tylin, “but let me add my apologies to
those of Merilille and the others. Gathering an army inside your borders
without your permission was unconscionable. All I can say in mitigation
is that events moved quickly and we in Salidar were caught up, but that
is no excuse. I swear to you, no harm is intended to Altara, and no
insult was meant to the Throne of the Winds. Even as we speak, Gareth
Bryne leads that army north, out of Altara.”

Tylin stared at her, unblinking. “I have heard no word of apology or
excuse until yours. But any ruler of Altara must learn to swallow insult
from greater powers without salt.” Taking a deep breath, she gestured,
lace waving. “Sit, sit. Both of you sit. Lean back on your knife and let
your tongue go free.” Her sudden smile was very close to a grin. “I
don’t know how you say it in Andor. Be at ease, and speak your mind as
you wish.”

Nynaeve was glad that Elayne’s blue eyes widened in surprise, because
she herself gasped aloud. This was the woman who Merilille had claimed
required ceremony carved in polished marble? Nynaeve was more than glad
to take a chair. Thinking of all the hidden currents in Salidar, she
wondered whether Tylin was trying to . . . to what? She had come to
expect everyone who was not a close friend to
try manipulating her. Elayne sat on the very front of her chair, and
stiffly.

“I mean what I say,” Tylin insisted. “Whatever you say, I will hear no
insult.” From the way her fingers tapped the jeweled hilt at her waist,
though, silence might be heard as one.

“I am not certain where to begin,” Nynaeve said carefully. She did wish
Elayne had not actually nodded at that; Elayne was supposed to know how
to handle kings and queens. Why did she not say something?

“With why,” the Queen said impatiently. “Why do four more Aes Sedai come
to Ebou Dar from Salidar? It cannot be to outshine Elaida’s
embassy—Teslyn does not even call it that, and there are only her and
Joline. . . . You did not know?” Falling back in her chair laughing, she
pressed the fingers of one hand to her lips. “Do you know about the
Whitecloaks? Yes?” Her free hand made a slashing gesture, and her mirth
began to subside in small ripples. “That for Whitecloaks! But I must
listen to all who court me, Lord Inquisitor Carridin as well as the
others.”

“But why?” Nynaeve demanded. “I am glad you don’t like Whitecloaks, but
in that case, why must you listen to a word Carridin says? The man’s a
butcher.” She knew she had made another mistake. The way Elayne suddenly
seemed to be studying the broad white fireplace, where the deep lintel
was carved into towering waves, told her that even before the last
vestige of Tylin’s laughter snuffed out like a candle.

“You take me at my word,” the Queen said quietly. “I said let your
tongue go free, and. . . .” Those dark eyes went to the floor tiles, and
she seemed to be gathering herself.

Nynaeve looked to Elayne, hoping for some hint of what she had done
wrong, or better, how to make it right, but Elayne only gave her one
sideways glance and the smallest shake of her head before returning to
her study of the marble waves. Maybe she should avoid looking at Tylin,
too? Yet the woman staring at the floor drew her eyes. With one hand
Tylin stroked the hilt of her curved dagger, with the other fingered the
smaller hilt nestled between her breasts.

The marriage dagger told quite a lot about Tylin; Vandene and Adeleas
had been more than willing to explain some things concerning Ebou Dar,
usually those that made the city seem unsafe for anyone not surrounded
by a dozen armored guards. The white sheath meant the Queen was widowed
and did not intend to remarry. The four pearls and one firedrop set in
the goldwrapped hilt said she had borne four sons and one daughter; the
whiteenameled setting of the firedrop and the redenameled of three of
the pearls said only one son survived. All had
been at least sixteen when they died, and died in duels, or the settings
would have been black. What must it be like to constantly carry a
reminder of that sort! According to Vandene, women saw a red or white
setting as a source of pride, whether her stones were pearls and
firedrops or colored glass. Vandene said many Ebou Dari women removed
the stones of their children past sixteen who refused a duel, and never
acknowledged them again.

At long last Tylin raised her head. Her face was pleasant, and her hand
left the dagger in her belt, but she continued to finger the marriage
knife absently. “I want my son to follow me on the Throne of the Winds,”
she said mildly. “Beslan is your age, Elayne. This would be a matter of
course in Andor, though he would have to be a woman”—she actually
grinned, in apparently genuine amusement—“or in any other land save
Murandy, where matters are much the same as here in Altara. In the
thousand years since Artur Hawkwing, only one House has held the throne
for five generations, and Anarina’s fall was so precipitous that to this
day House Todande is a lapdog for anyone who wants them. No other House
has ever had more than two rulers in succession.

“When my father took the throne, other Houses had more of the city
itself than Mitsobar. Had he stepped outside this palace without guards,
he would have been sewn into a sack with rocks and tossed into the
river. When he died, he gave me what I have now. Small, compared to
other rulers. A man riding fresh horses could reach the end of my writ
in one day’s hard ride. I have not been idle, though. When news of the
Dragon Reborn came, I was certain I could hand on to Beslan twice what I
hold, and allies of a sort beyond that. The Stone of Tear and
Callandor changed everything. Now I thank Pedron Niall when he
arranges for Illian to take a hundredmile swathe of Altara instead of
invading. I listen to Jaichim Carridin, and I do not spit in his eye,
however many Altarans died in the Whitecloak War. I listen to Carridin,
and to Teslyn, and to Merilille, and I pray that I can pass something to
my son instead of being found drowned in my bath on the day Beslan meets
with an accident hunting.”

Tylin drew a long breath. The pleasant face remained, but an edge
entered her voice. “Now. I have stood barebreasted in the fishmarket
for you. Answer me mine. Why do I have the honor of four more Aes
Sedai?”

“We are here to find a ter’angreal,” Elayne said, and as Nynaeve
stared in amazement, she told everything from Tel’aran’rhiod to the
dust in the room where the bowl was.

“To make the weather right again would be a miraculous blessing,”
Tylin said slowly, “but the quarter you describe
sounds like the Rahad, across the river. Even the Civil Guard steps
lightly there. Forgive me—I understand that you are Aes Sedai—but in the
Rahad, you could have a knife in your back before you knew it. If the
clothes are fine, they use a very narrow blade so there is little blood.
Perhaps you should leave this search to Vandene and Adeleas. I think
they have had a few more years than you to see such places.”

“They told you about the bowl?” Nynaeve said with a frown, but the Queen
shook her head.

“Only that they were here to search for something. Aes Sedai never tell
a word more than they absolutely must.” Once again that sudden grin
flashed; it looked quite merry, though it did make her scars show as
thin lines across her cheeks. “Until you two, at least. May the years
not change you too much. I often wish Cavandra had not returned to the
Tower; I could talk with her in this way.” Standing, she motioned them
to remain seated and glided across the room to tap a silver gong with an
ivory mallet; it produced quite a loud chime for such a small cylinder.
“I will send for cool mint tea, and we will talk. You will tell me how I
can help—if I send soldiers into the Rahad, it will be the Wine Riots
all over again—and perhaps you will even be able to explain why the bay
is full of Sea Folk ships that neither dock nor trade. . . .”

A goodly time passed over tea and talk, mostly about the dangers of the
Rahad and what Tylin could not do, and Beslan was brought in, a
softspoken youth who bowed respectfully and stared with beautiful black
eyes that perhaps held relief when his mother said he could go. He
certainly never doubted they were Aes Sedai. Finally, though, the pair
of them were finding their way back to their apartment through the
brightly painted corridors.

“So they mean to take over the search too,” Nynaeve murmured, glancing
about to make sure none of the liveried servants was close enough to
hear. Tylin had known too much about them too soon. And however she
grinned, she had been upset over the Aes Sedai in Salidar. “Elayne, do
you think it was wise to tell her everything? She might decide the best
way to make sure that boy gets the throne is to let us find the bowl and
then tell Teslyn.” She remembered Teslyn slightly; a Red, and an
unpleasant woman.

“I know how my mother felt about Aes Sedai traveling about Andor, never
letting her know what they were doing. I know how I would feel. Besides,
I finally remembered being taught about that phrase—lean back on your
knife and the rest. The only way to insult somebody who says that
to you is to lie.” Elayne’s chin rose slightly.
“As for Vandene and Adeleas, they only think they’ve taken over. This
Rahad may be dangerous, but I cannot think it is any worse than
Tanchico, and we won’t have the Black Ajah to worry about. I wager in
ten days we will have the bowl, I will know what makes Mat’s
ter’angreal do what it should not be able to do and we will be on our
way to join Egwene, with him knuckling his forehead as fast as Master
Vanin, and Vandene and Adeleas will be left sitting here with Merilille
and Teslyn trying to puzzle out what happened.”

Nynaeve could not help it; she laughed out loud. A lanky serving man
shifting a large vase of golden porcelain stared at her, and she stuck
out her tongue at him. He nearly dropped the vase. “I won’t take that
wager, except about Mat. Ten days it is.”

 


