Matters of Toh 


Rand thought that he would sleep well that night. He was nearly tired
enough to forget Alanna’s touch, and more important, Aviendha was out in
the tents with the Wise Ones, not undressing for bed with no regard for
his presence, not disturbing his rest with the sound of her breathing.
Something else made him toss, though. Dreams. He always warded his
dreams, to keep the Forsaken out—and the Wise Ones—but warding could not
keep out what was already inside. Dreams came of huge white things like
giant birdwings without the bird, sailing across the sky; of great
cities of impossibly tall buildings, shining in the sun, with shapes
like beetles and flattened waterdrops speeding along the streets. He
had seen all that before, inside the huge ter’angreal in Rhuidean
where he had gained the Dragons on his arms, and knew them for images of
the Age of Legends, but this time it was all different. Everything
seemed twisted, the colors . . . wrong, as though something had gone
askew in his eyes. The showings faltered and fell, each carrying
hundreds to death. Buildings shattered like glass, cities burned, the
land heaved like stormtossed seas. And time after time he faced a
beautiful goldenhaired woman, watched love turn to terror on her face.
Part of him knew her. Part of him wanted to save her, from the Dark One,
from any harm, from what he himself was about to do. So many parts of
him, mind splintered in glittering shards, all screaming.

He woke in darkness, sweating, shaking. Lews
Therin’s dreams. That had never happened before, not dreaming the man’s
dreams. He lay there the hours remaining until sunrise, staring at
nothing, afraid to close his eyes. He held on to saidin as if he could
use it to fight the dead man, but Lews Therin remained silent.

When pale light finally appeared at the windows, a gai’shain slipped
silently into the room with a clothcovered silver tray. Seeing Rand
awake, he did not speak, only bowed and left just as quietly. With the
Power in him, Rand smelled cool sweetberry tea and warm bread, butter
and honey, the hot porridge Aiel ate mornings, all as if his nose were
in the tray. Releasing the Source, he dressed and buckled on his sword.
He did not touch the cloth covering the food; he did not much feel like
eating. Holding the Dragon Scepter in the crook of his elbow, he left
his apartments.

The Maidens were back in the wide corridor with Sulin, and Urien and his
Red Shields, but not alone. People crowded the hallway shoulder to
shoulder beyond the guards. And some inside the ring. Aviendha stood
among a delegation of Wise Ones, Amys and Bair and Melaine, Sorilea of
course, Chaelin, a Smoke Water Miagoma with touches of gray in her dark
red hair, and Edarra, a Neder Shiande who looked not much older than
himself, though she already had an apparently unshakable calm in her
blue eyes and a straightbacked presence to match the others. Berelain
was with them, too, but not Rhuarc or any of the other clan chiefs. What
he had had to say to them had been said, and Aiel did not draw things
out. But then, why were the Wise Ones there? Or Berelain? The
greenandwhite dress she wore this morning showed a pleasant expanse of
pale bosom.

Then there were the Cairhienin, outside the ring of Aiel. Colavaere,
strikingly handsome in her middle years, dark hair an elaborate tower of
curls and horizontal slashes coloring her gown from high
goldembroidered collar to below her knees, more slashes than anyone
else present. Solid, squarefaced Dobraine, the front of his mostly gray
hair shaved soldier fashion and his coat worn from the straps of a
breastplate. Maringil, straight as a blade, white hair touching his
shoulders; he had not shaved his forehead, and his dark silk coat,
striped like Dobraine’s nearly to his knees, was fit for a ball. Two
dozen or more clustered behind, mostly younger men and women, few
wearing horizontal stripes even as low as the waist. “Grace favor the
Lord Dragon,” they murmured, bowing hand to heart or curtsying, and,
“Grace honors us with the Lord Dragon’s presence.”

The Tairens had their contingent as well, High Lords and Ladies without
lesser nobles, in peaked velvet hats and silk
coats with puffy, satinstriped sleeves, in bright gowns with broad lace
ruffs and closefitting caps of pearls or gems, making their respects
with “The Light illumine the Lord Dragon.” Meilan stood foremost, of
course, lean and hard and expressionless, with his gray pointed beard.
Close beside him, Fionnda’s stern expression and iron eyes somehow did
not diminish her beauty, while willowy Anaiyella’s simpers lessened
hers. There were certainly no smiles of any sort on the faces of
Maraconn, a blueeyed rarity among Tairens, or bald Gueyam, or Aracome,
who looked twice as slender alongside Gueyam’s solid width if just as
steely. They—and Meilan—had been thick with Hearne and Simaan. Rand had
not mentioned those two yesterday, or their treason, but he was sure it
was known here, and equally sure his silence was given meaning according
to each man’s own mind. They had grown used to such since coming to
Cairhien, and this morning they watched Rand as if he might suddenly
produce orders for their arrest.

In truth, nearly everyone was watching someone. A good many eyed the
Aiel nervously, often hiding anger with varying success. Others watched
Berelain almost as closely; he was surprised to see that even the men,
even the Tairens, had more thought than lechery on their faces. Most
watched him, of course; he was who he was, and what he was. Colavaere’s
cool gaze shifted between him and Aviendha, where it heated; there was
bad blood there, though Aviendha seemed to have forgotten. Colavaere
would certainly never forget the beating she had received from Aviendha
after being discovered in Rand’s rooms, or forgive the fact that it was
common knowledge now. Meilan and Maringil each made his awareness of the
other plain by avoiding the other’s eyes. Both wanted the throne of
Cairhien, and both thought the other his chief rival. Dobraine watched
Meilan and Maringil, though why was anyone’s guess. Melaine studied
Rand, while Sorilea studied her, and Aviendha frowned at the floor.
One bigeyed young woman among the Cairhienin wore her hair loose and
cut off at the shoulder instead of piled in ornate curls, and a sword
belted over a dark riding dress with only six slashes of color. Many of
the others did not bother to hide disparaging smiles when they glanced
at her; she hardly seemed to notice, alternating between staring at the
Maidens with stark admiration or at Rand with stark fear. He remembered
her. Selande, one of the stream of beautiful women Colavaere had thought
would tie the Dragon Reborn to her schemes, until Rand convinced her it
would not work. With Aviendha’s unasked help, unfortunately. He hoped
Colavaere feared him enough to forget revenge on Aviendha, but he wished
he could make Selande believe she had nothing to
fear. You cannot please everyone, Moiraine had said. You cannot
soothe everyone. A hard woman.

To cap it all, the Aiel watched everyone except the Wise Ones, of
course. And except Berelain, for some reason. They always eyed
wetlanders suspiciously, yet she might as well have been another Wise
One.

“You all honor me.” Rand hoped he did not sound too dry. Back to a
parade. He wondered where Egwene was. Probably lolling in bed. Briefly
he considered finding her and making one last effort to. . . . No, if
she would not tell, he did not know how to make her. Too bad being
ta’veren did not work when he most wanted it to. “Unfortunately, I
will not be able to talk with you more this morning. I am returning to
Caemlyn.” Andor was the problem he had to deal with now. Andor, and
Sammael.

“Your orders are to be carried out, my Lord Dragon,” Berelain said.
“This morning, so you may witness it.”

“My orders?”

“Mangin,” she said. “He was told this morning.” Most of the Wise Ones
had donned a flat expression, but Bair and Sorilea both wore open
disapproval. Surprisingly, it was directed at Berelain.

“I don’t mean to be a witness to every murderer who’s hung,” Rand said
coldly. In truth, he had forgotten, or rather shoved it out of his mind.
Hanging a man you liked was not something anyone would want to remember.
Rhuarc and the other chiefs had not even mentioned it when he spoke with
them. Another truth was that he would not make this execution special.
Aiel had to live by the law like anyone else; Cairhienin and Tairens had
to see that, and know that if he would not play favorites with the Aiel,
he certainly would not with them. You use everything and everybody, he
thought, sickened; at least, he hoped he had thought it. Besides, he did
not want to watch any hanging; much less Mangin’s.

Meilan certainly looked thoughtful, and sweat was beading on Aracome’s
forehead, though that might have been the heat. Colavaere, face going
pale, seemed to be seeing him for the first time ever. Berelain divided
a rueful glance between Bair and Sorilea, who nodded; could they have
told her he would answer as he had? It did not seem possible. The
others’ reactions varied from surprise to satisfaction, but he noted
Selande in particular. Wideeyed, she forgot the Maidens; if she had
looked at Rand fearfully before, now she was terrified. Well, so be it.

“I will be leaving for Caemlyn immediately,” Rand told them. A soft
sound rippled among the Cairhienin and Tairens, very much like sighs of
relief.

It was no surprise that they all accompanied him
as far as the chamber set aside for his Traveling. Except for Berelain,
the Maidens and Red Shields kept the wetlanders back; they did not
particularly like letting Cairhienin near him, and he was as glad as
they barred the Tairens today. There were plenty of glares, but no one
said anything, not to him. Not even Berelain, who followed right behind
with the Wise Ones and Aviendha, talking quietly, occasionally laughing
softly. That made the hair on his neck stand, Berelain and Aviendha
talking together. And laughing?

At the squarecarved door to the Traveling chamber, he looked carefully
above Berelain’s head as she swept him a deep curtsy. “I will tend
Cairhien without fear or favor until you return, my Lord Dragon.”
Perhaps, despite Mangin, she really had come this morning just to say
that, and be heard by the other nobles. It brought an indulgent smile
from Sorilea for some reason. He needed to find out what was going on
there; he was not going to have the Wise Ones interfering with Berelain.
The rest of the Wise Ones had drawn Aviendha aside; they seemed to be
taking turns speaking to her, quite firmly though he could not make out
words. “When you see Perrin Aybarra next,” Berelain added, “please give
him my warmest wishes. And Mat Cauthon, also.”

“We await the Lord Dragon’s return eagerly,” Colavaere lied, keeping her
face carefully neutral.

Meilan glared at her for having managed to speak first, and made a
flowery speech, saying no more really than she had, which Maringil of
course had to top, for floweriness at least. Fionnda and Anaiyella
outdid both, adding enough compliments that he eyed Aviendha anxiously,
but the Wise Ones still had her occupied. Dobraine contented himself
with, “Until my Lord Dragon’s return,” while Maraconn, Gueyam and
Aracome murmured something indistinct with wary eyes.

It was a relief to duck inside, away from them. The surprise came when
Melaine followed him ahead of Aviendha. He raised a questioning eyebrow.

“I must consult with Bael on business of the Wise Ones,” she told him in
a nononsense voice, then immediately shot a sharp look at Aviendha, who
had on such an innocent face that Rand knew she was hiding something.
Aviendha looked many things naturally, but never innocent; never that
innocent.

“As you wish,” he said. He suspected the Wise Ones had been waiting a
chance to send her to Caemlyn. Who better to make sure Rand did not
influence Bael the wrong way than Bael’s wife? Like Rhuarc, the man had
two, which Mat always said was either a dream or
a nightmare and he could not decide which.

Aviendha watched closely as he opened a gateway back to Caemlyn, into
the Grand Hall. She usually did, though she could not see his flows.
Once she had made a gateway herself, but in a rare moment of panic, and
she had never been able to remember how. Today for some reason the
rotating slash of light apparently reminded her of what happened that
time; red suffused her tan cheeks, and she suddenly refused to look in
his direction. With the Power filling him, he smelled her, the herbal
scent of her soap, a hint of sweet perfume he could not remember her
wearing before. For once truly eager to be rid of saidin, he was the
first one through into the empty throne room. Alanna seemed to crash
home in his head, her presence as palpable as if she had been right in
front of him. She had been weeping, he thought. Because he had gone
away? Well, let her weep for that. Somehow he had to break free of her.

His going first did not sit well with the Maidens or Red Shields, of
course. Urien merely grunted and shook his head disapprovingly. A
whitefaced Sulin went up on her toes to put herself nosetonose with
Rand. “The great and powerful Car’a’carn gave his honor to Far Dareis
Mai to carry,” she all but hissed in a low whisper. “If the mighty
Car’a’carn dies in ambush while the Maidens protect him, Far Dareis
Mai has no honor left. If the allconquering Car’a’carn does not
care, perhaps Enaila is right. Perhaps the omnipotent Car’a’carn is a
willful boy who should be held by the hand lest he run over a cliff
because he will not look.”

Rand’s jaw tightened. In private he gritted his teeth and put up with
this—with less pointed than this, usually—for the debt he owed the
Maidens, but not even Enaila or Somara had ever openly berated him in
public. Melaine was already halfway down the hall, skirts gathered up
and almost trotting; apparently she could not wait to reestablish the
Wise Ones’ influence with Bael. He could not tell whether Urien had
heard, though the man seemed awfully intent on directing his veiled
Aethan Dor as they searched through the columns with the Maidens,
something they had no need of direction to do. Aviendha, on the other
hand, arms folded beneath her breasts, wore such a mix of frown and
approval that he had no doubts about her.

“Yesterday went very well,” he told Sulin firmly. “From now on, I think
two guards will be more than sufficient.” Her eyes almost bulged; she
could not seem to find breath to speak. Now that he had taken away, it
was time to give back, before she exploded like an Illuminator’s
fireworks. “It’s different when I go outside the
Palace, of course. The guard you have been giving me will do then, but
here, or in the Sun Palace or the Stone of Tear, two are enough.” He
turned away while her mouth still worked silently.

Aviendha fell in beside him as he walked around the dais holding the
thrones to the small doors behind. He had come here instead of straight
to his own rooms in hope that he could lose her. Even without saidin
he could smell her, or maybe it was the memory. Either way, he wished
his head were clogged with a cold; he liked the smell too much.

Shawl wrapped around her tightly, Aviendha stared straight ahead of her
as if troubled, not noticing when he held the door into one of the
lionpaneled dressing rooms for her, something that usually aroused at
least a little ire, perhaps a tart question as to which of her arms was
broken. When he asked what was the matter, she gave a start. “Nothing.
Sulin was right. But. . . .” Suddenly she gave a reluctant grin. “Did
you see her face? No one has set her down like that since . . . since
never, I think. Not even Rhuarc.”

“I’m a little surprised to find you on my side.”

She stared at him with those big eyes. He could spend all day just
trying to decide whether they were blue or green. No. He had no right to
think about her eyes. What had happened after she made that doorway—to
run from him—made no difference. He especially had no right to think
about that.

“You trouble me so, Rand al’Thor,” she said without a bit of heat.
“Light, sometimes I think the Creator made you just to trouble me.”

He wanted to tell her it was her own fault—more than once he had offered
to send her back to the Wise Ones, though it would just mean them
putting someone else in her place—but before he could open his mouth,
Jalani and Liah caught up, followed almost immediately by two Red
Shields, one a graying fellow with three times the scars Liah had on her
face. Rand directed Jalani and the scarred man back to the throne room,
which nearly precipitated an argument. Not from the Red Shield, who
merely glanced at his fellow, shrugged and went, but Jalani drew herself
up.

Rand pointed to the door leading to the Grand Hall. “The Car’a’carn
expects Far Dareis Mai to go where he commands.”

“You may be a king to the wetlanders, Rand al’Thor, but not to Aiel.” A
tough sullenness marred Jalani’s dignity, reminding him how young she
was. “The Maidens will never fail you in the dance of spears, but this
is not the dance.” Still, she went, after a rapid exchange of handtalk
with Liah.

With Liah and the lean Red Shield, a yellowhaired man named Cassin
who stood a good inch taller than Rand, Rand
strode quickly through the palace to his rooms. And with Aviendha, of
course. If he had thought those bulky skirts might make her fall behind,
he was mistaken. Liah and Cassin remained in the hallway outside his
sitting room, a large chamber with a marble frieze of lions below the
high ceiling and tapestries of hunting scenes and misty mountains, but
Aviendha followed him inside.

“Shouldn’t you be with Melaine?” he demanded. “Business of the Wise Ones
and all that?”

“No,” she said curtly. “Melaine would not be pleased if I interfered
right now.”

Light, but he should not be pleased that she was not going. Tossing
the Dragon Scepter atop a table with gilded vinecarved legs, he undid
his sword belt and added that. “Did Amys and the others tell you where
Elayne is?”

For a long moment Aviendha stood in the middle of the bluetiled floor
looking at him, her expression unreadable. “They do not know,” she said
finally. “I asked.” He had expected she would. She had not done it in
months, but before coming to Caemlyn the first time with him, every
second word out of her mouth had been a reminder that he belonged to
Elayne. In her view he did, and what had happened between them beyond
that gateway she had made clearly did not alter the fact, and would not
happen again, something else she had made quite clear. Exactly as he
wanted it; he was worse than a pig to feel regret. Ignoring all the fine
gilded chairs, she settled crosslegged on the floor, arranging her
skirts gracefully. “They did speak of you, though.”

“Why does that not surprise me?” he said dryly, and to his surprise her
cheeks reddened. Aviendha was not a woman for blushes, and this made
twice in one day.

“They have shared dreams, some of which concern you.” She sounded
slightly strangled until she paused to clear her throat, then fixed him
with a steady, determined gaze. “Melaine and Bair dreamed of you on a
boat,” she said, the word still awkward after all these months in the
wetlands, “with three women whose faces they could not see, and a scale
tilting first one way then the other. Melaine and Amys dreamed of a man
standing by your side with a dagger to your throat, but you did not see
him. Bair and Amys dreamed of you cutting the wetlands in two with a
sword.” For an instant her eyes darted contemptuously to the scabbarded
blade lying atop the Dragon Scepter. Contemptuously, and a bit guiltily.
She had given him that, once the property of King Laman, carefully
wrapped in a blanket so she could not be said to
have actually touched it. “They cannot interpret the dreams, but they
thought you should know.”

The first was as opaque to him as to the Wise Ones, but the second
seemed obvious. A man he could not see with a dagger had to be a Gray
Man; their souls given up to the Shadow—not merely pledged, but given
away—they could slip past notice even when you looked right at them, and
their only real purpose was assassination. Why had the Wise Ones not
understood something so plain? As for the last, he feared that was plain
as well. He already was cutting lands apart. Tarabon and Arad Doman were
ruins, the rebellions in Tear and Cairhien could become more than
skulking talk at any time, and Illian would certainly feel the weight of
his sword. And that was aside from the Prophet, and the Dragonsworn down
in Altara and Murandy.

“I don’t see any mystery in two of those, Aviendha.” But when he
explained, she gave him a doubtful look. Of course. If Wise One
dreamwalkers could not interpret a dream, certainly no one else could.
He grunted sourly and flung himself into a chair facing her. “What else
did they dream?”

“There is one other I can tell you, though it may not concern you.”
Which meant there were some she would not tell, which made him wonder
why the Wise Ones had discussed them with her, since she was not a
dreamwalker. “All three had this dream, which makes it especially
significant. Rain,” that word still came clumsily too, “coming from a
bowl. There are snares and pitfalls around the bowl. If the right hands
pick it up, they will find a treasure perhaps as great as the bowl. If
the wrong hands, the world is doomed. The key to finding the bowl is to
find the one who is no longer.”

“No longer what?” This certainly sounded more important than the rest.
“Do you mean somebody who’s dead?”

Aviendha’s dark reddish hair swung below her shoulders as she shook her
head. “They know no more than I said.” To his surprise, she rose
smoothly with those automatic adjustments to her clothes that women
always made.

“Do you—” He coughed deliberately. Do you have to go? he had been
about to say. Light, he wanted her to go. Every minute around her was
torture. But then, every minute away from her was torture too. Well, he
could do what was right and what was good for him, and best for her. “Do
you want to go back to the Wise Ones, Aviendha? To resume your studies?
There really isn’t any point to your staying longer. You’ve taught me so
much, I might as well have been raised Aiel.”

Her sniff said volumes, but of course she did
not leave it at that. “You know less than a boy of six. Why does a man
listen to his secondmother before his own mother, and a woman to her
secondfather before her own? When can a woman marry a man without
making a bridal wreath? When must a roofmistress obey a blacksmith? If
you take a silversmith gai’shain, why must you let her work one day
for herself for each she works for you? Why is the same not true of a
weaver?” He floundered for answers short of admitting he did not know,
but she suddenly fiddled with her shawl as if she had forgotten him.
“Sometimes ji’e’toh makes for very great jokes. I would laugh my sides
apart if I were not the butt of this one.” Her voice dropped to a
whisper. “I will meet my toh.”

He thought she was talking to herself, but he answered. Carefully. “If
you mean about Lanfear, it wasn’t me who saved you. Moiraine did. She
died saving all of us.” Laman’s sword had rid her of her only other
toh to him, though he had never been able to understand what that was.
The only obligation she knew. He prayed she never learned of the other;
she would see it as one, though he certainly did not.

Aviendha peered at him, head tilted and a slight smile flickering on her
lips. She had regained a selfpossession that would have done Sorilea
proud. “Thank you, Rand al’Thor. Bair says it is well to be reminded now
and then that a man does not know everything. Be sure to let me know
when you mean to go to sleep. I would not come late and wake you.”

Rand sat there staring at the door after she had gone. A Cairhienin
playing the Game of Houses was usually easier to understand than any
woman making no effort to be enigmatic at all. He suspected that what he
felt for Aviendha, whatever that was, tangled things up worse.

What I love, I destroy, Lews Therin laughed. What I destroy, I love.

Shut up! Rand thought furiously, and the thinedged laughter vanished.
He did not know who he loved, but he knew who he was going to save. From
whatever he could, but from him most of all.

 

In the hallway, Aviendha sagged against the door, taking deep calming
breaths. Meant to be calming, anyway. Her heart still tried to tear
through her rib cage. Being near Rand al’Thor stretched her naked over
hot coals, stretched her till she thought her bones would pop apart. He
brought such shame to her as she had never thought she would know. A
great joke, she had told him, and part of her did want to laugh. She had
toh toward him, but much more toward Elayne. All he had done was save
her life. Lanfear would have killed her without
him. Lanfear had wanted to kill her in particular, as painfully as
possible. Somehow, Lanfear had known. Beside what she had incurred
toward Elayne, her toh toward Rand was a termite mound beside the
Spine of the World.

Cassin—the cut of his coat told her he was Goshien as well as Aethan
Dor; she did not recognize his sept—merely glanced at her from where he
squatted with his spears across his knees; he knew nothing, of course.
But Liah smiled at her, entirely too encouragingly for a woman she did
not know, entirely too knowingly for anyone. Aviendha was shocked to
find herself thinking that Chareen, as Liah’s coat marked her, were
often sneaking cats; she had never thought of any Maiden as anything but
Far Dareis Mai. Rand al’Thor had unstrung her brain.

Still, her fingers flashed angrily. Why do you smile, girl? Have you no
better use for your time?

Liah’s eyebrows raised slightly, and if anything her smile became
amused. Her fingers moved in answer. Who do you call girl, girl? You
are not yet wise, but no longer Maiden. I think you will put your soul
in a wreath to lay at a man’s feet.

Aviendha took a furious step forward—there were few insults worse among
Far Dareis Mai—then stopped. In cadin’sor she did not think Liah
could match her, but in skirts, she would be defeated. Worse, Liah would
probably refuse to make her gai’shain; she could, attacked by a woman
who was not a Maiden and not yet a Wise One, or demand the right to beat
Aviendha before any of the Taardad who could be gathered. A lesser shame
than the refusal, but not small. Worst of all, whether she won or lost,
Melaine surely would choose a method to remind her she had left the
spear behind that would make her wish Liah had drubbed her ten times
before all the clans. In a Wise One’s hands, shame was keener than a
flaying knife. Liah never moved a muscle; she knew all that as well as
Aviendha did.

“Now you stare at one another,” Cassin said idly. “One day I must learn
this handtalk of yours.”

Liah glanced at him, her laugh silvery. “You will look pretty in skirts,
Red Shield, the day you come to ask to become a Maiden.”

Aviendha drew a relieved breath when Liah’s eyes left hers; under the
circumstances, she could not have looked away first honorably.
Automatically her fingers moved in acknowledgment, the first handtalk a
Maiden learned, since the phrase a new Maiden used most often. I have
toh.

Liah signed back without pause. Very small, spearsister.

Aviendha smiled gratefully for the missing
hooked little finger that would have made the term mocking, used to
women who gave up the spear and then tried to behave as if they had not.

A wetlander servant was running up the hall. Keeping her face clear of
the disgust she felt for someone who spent his life serving others,
Aviendha strode off the other way, so she would not have to pass the
fellow. Killing Rand al’Thor would meet one toh, killing herself the
second, but each toh blocked that solution to the other. Whatever the
Wise Ones said, she had to find some way to meet both.

 


