Under the Dust 


Wondering whether to undo her braid, Nynaeve glowered out from under a
frayed redstriped towel at her dress and shift, hanging over chairbacks
and dripping on the cleanswept floorboards. Another raveled towel,
striped green and white and considerably larger, served her as a
substitute garment. “Now we know shock doesn’t work,” she growled at
Theodrin, and winced. Her jaw hurt, and her cheek still stung. Theodrin
had quick reflexes and a strong arm. “I could channel now, but for a
moment there, saidar was the furthest thing from my mind.” In that
drenched moment of gasping for breath, when thought had fled and
instinct had taken over.

“Well, channel your things dry,” Theodrin muttered.

It made Nynaeve’s jaw feel better, watching Theodrin peer into a broken
triangle of mirror and finger her eye. The flesh looked a little puffy
already, and Nynaeve suspected that left alone the bruise would be
spectacular. Her own arm was not so weak. A bruise was the least
Theodrin deserved!

Perhaps the Domani thought the same, because she sighed, “I won’t try
that again. But one way or another, I will teach you to surrender to
saidar without first being angry enough to bite it.”

Frowning at the soaked garments, Nynaeve considered a moment. She had
never done anything like this before. The prohibition against doing
chores with the Power was strong, and with good
reason. Saidar was seductive. The more you channeled, the more you
wanted to channel, and the more you wanted to channel, the greater the
risk that eventually you would draw too much and still or kill yourself.
The sweetness of the True Source filled her easily now. Theodrin’s
bucket of water had seen to that, if the rest of the morning had not. A
simple weave of Water drew all the moisture from her clothes to fall on
the floor in a puddle that quickly spread to join what the bucket had
put there.

“I am not very good at surrendering,” she said. Unless there was no
point in fighting, anyway. Only a fool went on where there was no chance
at all. She could not breathe under water, she could not fly by flapping
her arms—and she could not channel except when angry.

Theodrin shifted her frown from the puddle to Nynaeve and planted fists
on slim hips. “I am well aware of that,” she said in a too level tone.
“By all I’ve been taught, you should not be able to channel at all. I
was taught you must be calm to channel, cool and serene inside, open and
utterly yielding.” The glow of saidar surrounded her, and flows of
Water gathered the puddle into a ball sitting incongruously on the
floor. “You must surrender before you can guide. But you, Nynaeve . . .
however hard you try to surrender—and I’ve seen you try—you hang on with
your fingernails unless you’re furious enough to forget to.” Flows of
Air lifted the wobbling ball. For a moment, Nynaeve thought the other
woman meant to toss it at her, but the watery sphere floated across the
room and out one of the open windows. It made a great splash falling,
and a cat screamed in startled fury. Perhaps the prohibition did not
apply when you reached Theodrin’s level.

“Why not leave it at that?” Nynaeve tried to sound bright, but she
thought she failed. She wanted to channel whenever she pleased. But as
the old saying went, “If wishes were wings, pigs would fly.” “No use
wasting—”

“Leave that,” Theodrin said as Nynaeve started to use the weave of water
on her hair. “Let go of saidar and allow it to dry naturally. And put
on your clothes.”

Nynaeve’s eyes narrowed. “You don’t have another surprise waiting, do
you?”

“No. Now start preparing your mind. You are a flower bud feeling the
warmth of the Source, ready to open to that warmth. Saidar is the
river, you the bank. The river is more powerful than the bank, yet the
bank contains and guides it. Empty your mind except for the bud. There
is nothing in your thoughts but the bud. You are the bud. . . .”

Pulling her shift over her head, Nynaeve sighed
as Theodrin’s voice droned on hypnotically. Novice exercises. If those
worked with her, she would have been channeling whenever she wanted long
ago. She should stop this and see to what she really could do, such as
convincing Elayne to go to Caemlyn. But she wanted Theodrin to be
successful, even if it entailed ten buckets of water. Accepted did not
walk out; Accepted did not defy. She hated being told what she could not
do even worse than being told what she must.

Hours passed, with them now seated facing one another across a table
that looked to have come out of a ramshackle farmhouse, hours of
repeating drills that the novices were probably doing right that moment.
The flower bud, and the riverbank. The summer breeze, and the babbling
brook. Nynaeve tried to be a dandelion seed floating on the wind, the
earth drinking in spring rain, a root inching its way through the soil.
All without result, or at least the result Theodrin wanted. She even
suggested Nynaeve imagine herself in a lover’s arms, which turned out a
disaster, since it made her think of Lan, and how dare he vanish like
this! But every time frustration sparked anger like a hot coal in dry
grass and put saidar in her grasp, Theodrin made her release it and
start again, soothing, calming. The way the woman remained fixed on what
she wanted was maddening. Nynaeve thought she could teach mules how to
be stubborn. She never got frustrated; she had serenity down to an art.
Nynaeve wanted to upend a bucket of cold water over her head and see
how she liked it. Then again, considering the ache in her jaw, maybe
that was not such a good idea.

Theodrin Healed that ache before Nynaeve left, which was about the
extent of her abilities in that Talent. After a moment, Nynaeve gave
Healing in return. Theodrin’s eye had turned a brilliant purple, and she
really hated not leaving it to remind the woman to have a little care
what she did in the future, but turnabout was fair, and Theodrin’s
gasping shivers as the flows of Spirit, Air and Water ran through her
were some recompense for Nynaeve’s own gasps when that bucket had
emptied over her. Of course, she shivered too, at her own Healing, but
you could not have everything.

Outside, the sun stood halfway down toward the western horizon. Down the
street, a ripple of bows and curtsies moved through the crowd, and then
the shifting throng opened to reveal Tarna Feir, gliding along like a
queen walking through a pigsty, the redfringed shawl looped over her
arms like a blatant banner. Even at fifty paces her attitude was plain
in the way she held her head, the way she kept her skirts out of the
dust, the way she ignored even those making courtesy as she passed. The
first day there had been many fewer courtesies
and much more bluster, but an Aes Sedai was an Aes Sedai, to the sisters
in Salidar anyway. To drive that home, two Accepted, five novices and
near a dozen serving men and women were spending what would have been
their free hours hauling kitchen garbage and chamberpot emptyings out
to the woods and burying them.

As Nynaeve slipped away, before Tarna could see her in turn, her stomach
growled loudly enough for a fellow with a basket of turnips on his back
to give her a startled look. Breakfast time had gone in Elayne’s attempt
to pierce the ward, the midday meal in Theodrin’s exercises. And she was
not finished with the woman today. Theodrin’s instructions had been not
to sleep tonight. Perhaps exhaustion would work where shock had not.
Any block can be broken, Theodrin had said, her voice all implacable
confidence, and I will break yours. It only takes once. One time
channeling without anger, and saidar will be yours.

At the moment all Nynaeve wanted to be hers was some food. The scullions
were already cleaning up, of course, and almost done, but the smell of
mutton stew and roast pig hanging around the kitchens made her nose
twitch. She had to settle for two pitiful apples, a bit of goat cheese
and a heel of bread. The day was not getting any better.

Back in their room she found Elayne sprawled atop her bed. The younger
woman glanced at her without raising her head, then rolled her eyes back
up to stare at the cracked ceiling. “I have had the most miserable
day, Nynaeve,” she sighed. “Escaralde insists on learning to make
ter’angreal when she isn’t strong enough, and Varilin did
something—I don’t know what—and the stone she was working on turned
into a ball of . . . well, it wasn’t quite flame . . . right in her
hands. Except for Dagdara, I think she’d have died; no one else there
could have Healed her, and I don’t think there was time to fetch someone
who could. Then I was thinking about Marigan—if we can’t learn how to
detect a man channeling, maybe we can learn to detect what he’s done; I
seem to remember Moiraine implying that was possible. I think I
do—anyway, I was thinking about her, and somebody touched me on the
shoulder, and I screamed like I’d been stuck with a needle. It was just
some poor carter wanting to ask me about a fool rumor, but I frightened
him so, he nearly ran.”

She drew breath finally, and Nynaeve abandoned the notion of throwing
her last apple core at her and darted into the momentary quiet. “Where
is Marigan?”

“She was finished tidying—and took her time about it, too—so I sent her
off to her own room. I am still wearing the bracelet. See?” She waved
her arm in the air and let it fall back to the
mattress, but the flow of words did not slow. “She was going on in that
awful whining way about how we should run off to Caemlyn, and I just
could not stand it another minute, not on top of everything else. My
novice class was a disaster. That horrible Keatlin woman—the one with
the nose?—kept muttering about how she’d never let a girl order her
around back home, and Faolain came stalking up demanding to know why I
had Nicola in the class—how was I supposed to know Nicola was meant to
be running errands for her?—then Ibrella decided to see how big a
flame she could make and nearly set the whole class on fire, and
Faolain dressed me down right in front of everybody for not keeping my
class under control, and Nicola said she—”

Nynaeve gave up trying to get a word in edgewise—maybe she should have
thrown the apple core—and just shouted. “I think Moghedien’s right!”

That name shut the other woman’s mouth, and sat her up staring, too.
Nynaeve could not help looking around to see if anyone had overheard,
even if they were in their own room.

“That is foolish, Nynaeve.”

Nynaeve did not know whether Elayne meant the suggestion or speaking
Moghedien’s name aloud, and she did not intend to inquire. Sitting on
her own bed opposite Elayne, she adjusted her skirts. “No, it isn’t. Any
day now Jaril and Seve will tell somebody Marigan isn’t their mother, if
they haven’t already. Are you ready for the questions that will bring?
I’m not. Any day some Aes Sedai is going to start digging into how I can
discover anything without being in a fury from sunup to sundown. Every
second Aes Sedai I speak to mentions it, and Dagdara has been looking at
me in a funny way lately. Besides, they aren’t going to do anything here
but sit. Unless they decide to go back to the Tower. I sneaked up and
listened to Tarna talking with Sheriam—”

“You what?”

“I sneaked up and listened,” Nynaeve said levelly. “The message they’re
sending to Elaida is that they need more time to consider. That means
they’re at least considering forgetting about the Red Ajah and Logain.
How they can, I don’t know, but they must be. If we stay here much
longer, we may end up handed to Elaida as a present. At least if we go
now we can tell Rand not to count on any Aes Sedai being behind him. We
can tell him not to trust any Aes Sedai.”

Frowning prettily, Elayne folded her legs beneath her. “If they’re still
considering, it means they haven’t decided. I think we should stay.
Maybe we can help them decide the right way.
Besides, unless you mean to talk Theodrin into coming along, you’ll
never break through your block if we go.”

Nynaeve ignored that. A fine lot of good Theodrin had done so far.
Buckets of water. No sleep tonight. What next? The woman had as good as
said she meant to try anything and everything until she found what
worked. Anything and everything took in too much to Nynaeve’s way of
thinking. “Help them decide? They won’t listen to us. Siuan hardly
listens to us, and if she has us by the scruff of the neck, we at least
have her by the toe.”

“I still think we should stay. At least until the Hall does decide.
Then, if worse comes to worst, we can at least tell Rand a fact and not
a maybe.”

“How are we supposed to find out? We can’t count on me finding the right
window to listen at twice. If we wait until they announce it, we may be
under guard. Me, at least. There isn’t an Aes Sedai doesn’t know Rand
and I both come from Emond’s Field.”

“Siuan will tell us before anything is announced,” the fool girl said
calmly. “You don’t think she and Leane will go meekly back to Elaida, do
you?”

There was that. Elaida would have Siuan and Leane’s heads before they
could curtsy. “That still doesn’t consider Jaril and Seve,” she
persisted.

“We will think of something. In any case, they aren’t the first refugee
children cared for by somebody not related to them.” Elayne probably
thought her dimpled smile was reassuring. “All we need do is put our
heads to it. At the very least, we should wait for Thom to return from
Amadicia. I cannot leave him behind.”

Nynaeve threw up her hands. If looks reflected character, Elayne should
have looked like a mule carved in stone. The girl had made Thom Merrilin
a replacement for the father who died when she was little. She also
sometimes seemed to think he could not find his way to the dinner table
unless she held his hand.

The only warning Nynaeve had was the feel of saidar being embraced
close by, then the door swung open on a flow of Air, and Tarna Feir
stepped into the room. Nynaeve and Elayne popped to their feet. An Aes
Sedai was an Aes Sedai, and some of those burying refuse were there on
Tarna’s word alone.

The yellowhaired Red sister scrutinized them, her face arrogant winter
marble. “So. The Queen of Andor and the crippled wilder.”

“Not yet, Aes Sedai,” Elayne replied with a cool politeness. “Not until
I am crowned in the Great Hall. And only if my
mother is dead,” she added.

Tarna’s smile could have frozen a snowstorm. “Of course. They tried to
keep you a secret, but whispers do get about.” Her gaze took in the
narrow beds and the rickety stool, the clothes on their wall pegs and
the cracked plaster. “I should think you would have better quarters,
considering all the miraculous things you’ve done. Were you in the White
Tower where you belong, I would not be surprised to see you both tested
for the shawl by now.”

“Thank you,” Nynaeve said, to show she could be as civil as Elayne.
Tarna looked at her. Those blue eyes made the rest of that face seem
warm. “Aes Sedai,” Nynaeve added hastily.

Tarna turned back to Elayne. “The Amyrlin has a special place in her
heart for you, and for Andor. She has such a search being made for you
as you would not believe. I know it would please her greatly if you
returned with me to Tar Valon.”

“My place is here, Aes Sedai.” Elayne’s voice was still pleasant, but
her chin came up in a good match to Tarna’s haughtiness. “I will return
to the Tower when the rest do.”

“I see,” the Red said flatly. “Very well. Leave us now. I wish to speak
to the wilder alone.”

Nynaeve and Elayne exchanged glances, but there was nothing for Elayne
to do but curtsy and go.

When the door closed, a startling change came over Tarna. She sat on
Elayne’s bed and swung her legs up, crossing her ankles, leaning back
against the chipped headboard and folding her hands on her stomach. Her
face thawed, and she even smiled. “You look uneasy. Do not be. I will
not bite you.”

Nynaeve could have believed that better if the other woman’s eyes had
changed too. The smile never touched them; in contrast, they seemed ten
times as hard, a hundred times as cold. The combination made her skin
crawl. “I am not uneasy,” she said stiffly, planting her feet to keep
them from shifting.

“Ah. Offended, is it? Why? Because I called you ‘wilder’? I’m a wilder
too, you know. Galina Casban beat my block out of me herself. She knew
my Ajah long before I did, and took a personal interest in me. She
always does in those she thinks will choose Red.” She shook her head,
laughing, eyes like frozen knives. “The hours I spent howling and
weeping before I could find saidar without my eyes shut tight; you
cannot weave if you cannot see the flows. I
understand Theodrin is using gentler methods with you.”

Nynaeve’s feet moved in spite of herself. Surely Theodrin would not try
that! Surely not. Stiffening her knees did nothing for the flutter in
her stomach. So she was not supposed to be offended, was she? Was she to
dismiss “crippled,” too? “What did you wish to speak to me about, Aes
Sedai?”

“The Amyrlin wants to see Elayne safe, but in many ways you are every
bit as important. Perhaps more. What you have in your head of Rand
al’Thor could be beyond price. And what Egwene al’Vere has in hers. Do
you know where she is?”

Nynaeve wanted to wipe the sweat from her face, but she kept her hands
by her sides. “I have not seen her in a long time, Aes Sedai.” Months,
since their last meeting in Tel’aran’rhiod. “May I ask, what does
. . .” No one in Salidar called Elaida Amyrlin, but she was supposed to
be respectful to this woman. “. . . the Amyrlin intend about Rand?”

“Intend, child? He’s the Dragon Reborn. The Amyrlin knows that, and she
intends to give him every honor he deserves.” A touch of intensity
entered Tarna’s voice. “Think, child. This lot will return to the fold
once it dawns on them fully what they do, but every day could be vital.
Three thousand years the White Tower has guided rulers; there would have
been more wars and worse without the Tower. The world faces disaster if
al’Thor lacks that guidance. But you cannot guide what you do not know,
any more than I could channel with my eyes closed. The best thing for
him is for you to return with me and give your knowledge of him to the
Amyrlin now, instead of in weeks or months. Best for you, as well. You
can never be made Aes Sedai here. The Oath Rod is in the Tower. The
testing can only be done in the Tower.”

Sweat stung Nynaeve’s eyes, but she refused to blink. Did the woman
think she could be bribed? “The truth of it is, I never spent much time
around him. I lived in the village, you see, and he on a farm off in the
Westwood. Mainly all I remember is a boy who never listened to reason.
He had to be pushed into doing what he should, or dragged into it. Of
course, that was when he was a boy. He may have changed, for all I know.
Most men are just the boy grown tall, but he could have.”

For a long moment Tarna merely looked at her. A very long moment, under
that frigid stare. “Well,” she said at last, and flowed onto her feet so
quickly Nynaeve almost stepped back, though there was nowhere in the
tiny room to step back to. That unsettling smile remained in place.
“Such an odd group gathered here. I haven’t seen
either, but I understand Siuan Sanche and Leane Sharif grace Salidar.
Not the sort a wise woman would consort with. And perhaps other odd
folk, too? You would do much better to come with me. I leave in the
morning. Let me know tonight whether I should expect to meet you on the
road.”

“I’m afraid not—”

“Think on it, child. This could be the most important decision you ever
make. Think very hard.” The amiable mask vanished, and Tarna swept out
of the room.

Nynaeve’s knees gave way, depositing her on the bed. The woman set such
a gamut of emotions running through her, she did not know what to make
of them. Uneasiness and anger roiled about with exhilaration. She wished
the Red had some way to communicate with the Tower Aes Sedai seeking
Rand. Oh, to be a fly on the wall when they tried using her assessment
of him. Trying to bribe her. Trying to frighten her. And doing a fair
job of the latter. Tarna was so sure the Aes Sedai here would kneel to
Elaida; it was a foregone conclusion, only the timing in doubt. And had
that been a hint about Logain? Nynaeve suspected Tarna knew more of
Salidar than the Hall or Sheriam suspected. Perhaps Elaida did have
supporters here.

Nynaeve kept expecting Elayne to return, and when a good half hour
passed without her, she went out hunting, first loping up and down dusty
streets, then trotting, pausing here to climb up on a cart tongue, there
to mount an upended barrel or a stone stoop, and peer across the heads
of the crowd. The sun descended to less than its own height above the
tree line before she stalked back to the room, muttering to herself. And
found Elayne, plainly just arrived herself.

“Where have you been? I thought Tarna might have you tied up somewhere!”

“I was getting these from Siuan.” Elayne opened her hand. Two of the
twisted stone rings lay on her palm.

“Is one of those the real one? It’s a good idea to take them, but you
should have tried to get the real one.”

“Nothing has changed my mind, Nynaeve. I still think we should stay.”

“Tarna—”

“Only convinced me. If we go, Sheriam and the Hall will choose the
Tower whole over Rand. I just know it.” She put her hands on Nynaeve’s
shoulders, and Nynaeve let herself be sat down on her bed. Elayne took
the other opposite her and leaned forward
intently. “You remember what you told me about using need to find
something in Tel’aran’rhiod? What we need is a way to convince the
Hall not to go to Elaida.”

“How? What? If Logain isn’t enough. . . .”

“We will know what when we find it,” Elayne said firmly.

Nynaeve fingered her wristthick braid absently. “Will you agree to go
if we don’t find anything? I don’t much like the thought of sitting here
until they decide to put us under guard.”

“I’ll agree to go provided you agree to stay if we do find something
useful. Nynaeve, as much as I want to see him, we can do more good
here.”

Nynaeve hesitated before finally muttering, “Agreed.” It seemed safe
enough. Without some idea of what they were looking for, she could not
imagine they would find anything at all.

If the day had seemed to pass slowly before, it began to crawl now. They
lined up at one of the kitchens for plates of sliced ham, turnips and
peas. The sun sat on the treetops for hours, it seemed. Most in Salidar
went to bed with the sun, but a few lights appeared in windows,
especially the Little Tower. The Hall was feasting Tarna tonight. Bits
of harp music occasionally drifted from the former inn; the Aes Sedai
had found a harper of sorts among the soldiers and had him shaved and
stuffed into something like livery. People passing by in the street
darted quick glances at it before hurrying on or ignored it so hard they
practically shook with the effort. Once again Gareth Bryne was the
exception. He ate his meal seated on a wooden box in the middle of the
street; any of the Hall looking out a window would have to see him.
Slowly, ever so slowly, the sun slid down behind the trees. Dark came
abruptly, with no twilight to speak of, and the streets emptied. The
harper’s melody began again. Gareth Bryne still sat on his box on the
edge of a pool of light from the Hall’s banquet. Nynaeve shook her head;
she did not know whether he was being admirable or foolish. Some of
each, she suspected.

It was not until she was in her bed with the flecked stone ter’angreal
on the cord around her neck with Lan’s heavy gold signet and the candle
snuffed that she remembered Theodrin’s instructions. Well, too late for
that now. Theodrin would never know whether she slept anyway. Where
was Lan?

The sound of Elayne’s breathing slowed, Nynaeve snuggled into her small
pillow with a tiny sigh, and . . .

. . . she stood at the foot of her empty bed, looking at a misty Elayne
in the not quite light of night in Tel’aran’rhiod. No one to see them
here. Sheriam or one of her circle might be
about, or Siuan or Leane. True, the pair of them had a right to visit
the World of Dreams, but on tonight’s quest neither wanted to answer
questions. Elayne apparently saw it as a hunt; consciously or not, she
had togged herself out like Birgitte, in green coat and white trousers.
She blinked at the silver bow in her hand, and it vanished along with
the quiver.

Nynaeve checked her own garments and sighed. A blue silk ball gown,
embroidered with golden flowers around the low neckline and in twined
lines down the full skirt. She could feel velvet dancing slippers on her
feet. What you wore in Tel’aran’rhiod did not really matter, but
whatever had possessed her mind to choose this? “You realize this might
not work,” she said, changing to good plain Two Rivers woolens and stout
shoes. Elayne had no right to smile that way. A silver bow. Ha! “We’re
supposed to have some idea at least of what we’re looking for, something
about it.”

“It will have to do, Nynaeve. According to you, the Wise Ones said the
stronger the need the better, and we surely need something, or the help
we promised Rand is going to vanish except for whatever Elaida is
willing to give. I won’t let that happen, Nynaeve. I will not.”

“Put your chin down. Neither will I, if there’s anything we can do about
it. We might as well get on with this.” Linking hands with Elayne,
Nynaeve closed her eyes. Need. She hoped some part of her had some
notion what it was they needed. Maybe nothing would happen. Need.
Suddenly everything seemed to slide around her; she felt
Tel’aran’rhiod tilt and swoop.

Her eyes sprang open immediately. Each step using need was taken blind,
of necessity, and while each took you closer to what you sought, any one
could drop you down in a pit of vipers, or a lion disturbed at its kill
could bite your leg off.

There were no lions, yet what there was was disturbing. It was bright
midday, but that did not bother her; time flowed differently here. She
and Elayne were holding hands in a cobblestone street, surrounded by
buildings of brick and stone. Elaborate cornices and friezes decorated
houses and shops alike. Ornate cupolas decorated tile rooftops, and
bridges of stone or wood arched across the street, sometimes three or
four stories up. Heaps of garbage, old clothes and broken furniture
stood piled on street corners, and rats scurried about by the score,
sometimes pausing to chitter fearless challenges at them. People
dreaming themselves to the brink of Tel’aran’rhiod flickered in and
out of existence. A man fell shrieking from one of the bridges and
vanished before he hit the cobblestones. A howling woman in a torn dress
ran a dozen paces toward them before she too winked out. {#page_321
.calibre14}Truncated screams and shouts echoed through the streets, and
sometimes coarse laughter with a maniacal edge.

“I don’t like this,” Elayne said in a worried tone.

In the distance, a great bonewhite shaft reared above the city, far
overtopping other towers, many of them linked by bridges that made those
where they were seem low. They were in Tar Valon, in the part where
Nynaeve had caught a glimpse of Leane last time. Leane had not been very
forthcoming about what she had been doing; increasing the awe and legend
of the mysterious Aes Sedai, she had claimed with a smile.

“It doesn’t matter,” Nynaeve said stoutly. “Nobody in Tar Valon even
knows about the World of Dreams. We won’t run into anybody.” Her stomach
turned over as a bloodyfaced man suddenly appeared, staggering toward
them. He had no hands, only spurting stumps.

“That was not what I meant,” Elayne muttered.

“Let’s be on about it.” Nynaeve closed her eyes. Need.

Shift.

They were in the Tower, in one of the tapestryhung curving hallways. A
plump noviceclad girl popped into existence not three paces away, her
big eyes going wider when she saw them. “Please,” she whimpered.
“Please?” And was gone.

Suddenly Elayne gasped, “Egwene!”

Nynaeve whirled around, but the passage was empty.

“I saw her,” Elayne insisted. “I know I did.”

“I suppose she can touch Tel’aran’rhiod in an ordinary dream like
anyone else,” Nynaeve told her. “Let’s just get on with what we’re here
for.” She was beginning to feel more than uneasy. They linked hands
again. Need.

Shift.

It was not an ordinary storeroom. Shelves lined the walls and made two
short rows out in the floor, neatly lined with boxes of various sizes
and shapes, some plain wood, some carved or lacquered, with things
wrapped in cloth, with statuettes and figurines, and peculiar shapes
seemingly of metal or glass, crystal or stone or glazed porcelain.
Nynaeve needed no more to know they must be objects of the One Power,
ter’angreal most likely, perhaps some angreal and sa’angreal. Such
a disparate collection, stored away so tidily, could not be anything
else in the Tower.

“I don’t think there is any point to going further here,” Elayne said
dejectedly. “I don’t know how we could ever get anything out of here.”

Nynaeve gave her braid a short tug. If there really was something here
they could use—there had to be, unless the Wise Ones had lied—then
there had to be a way to reach it in the waking
world. Angreal and the like were not heavily guarded; usually, when
she had been in the Tower, only by a lock and a novice. The door here
was made of heavy planks with a heavy black iron lock set in it. No
doubt it was fastened, but she fixed it in her mind as undone and
pushed.

The door swung open into a guardroom. Narrow beds stacked one atop
another lined one wall, and racked halberds lined another. Beyond a
heavy, battered table ringed by stools was another door, ironstrapped,
with a small grille set in it.

As she turned back to Elayne she was suddenly aware that the door was
shut again. “If we can’t get to what we need here, maybe we can
somewhere else. I mean, maybe something else will do. At least we have a
hint now. I think these are ter’angreal nobody has found how to use
yet. That’s the only reason they would be guarded like this. It could be
dangerous even to channel close to them.”

Elayne gave her a wry look. “But if we try again, won’t it just bring us
right back here? Unless. . . . Unless the Wise Ones told you how to
exclude a place from the search.”

They had not—they had not been eager to tell her anything at all—but in
a place where you open a lock by thinking it was open, anything should
be possible. “That’s exactly what we do. We fix it in our heads that
what we want isn’t in Tar Valon.” Frowning at the shelves, she added,
“And I’ll wager it is a ter’angreal nobody knows how to use.” Though
how that would convince the Hall to support Rand, she could not imagine.

“We need a ter’angreal that isn’t in Tar Valon,” Elayne said as if
convincing herself. “Very well. We go on.”

She held out her hands, and after a moment Nynaeve took them. Nynaeve
was not sure how she had become the one to insist on continuing. She
wanted to leave Salidar, not find a reason to stay. But if it assured
that the Salidar Aes Sedai would support Rand. . . .

Need. A ter’angreal. Not in Tar Valon. Need.

Shift.

Wherever they were, the dawnlit city was certainly not Tar Valon. Not
twenty paces away the broad paved street became a white stone bridge
with statues at either end, arching over a stonelined canal. Fifty
paces the other way stood another. Slender, balconyringed towers stood
everywhere, like spears driven through round slices of ornate
confection. Every building was white, the doorways and windows large
pointed arches, sometimes double or triple
arches. On the grander buildings, long balconies of whitepainted
wrought iron, with intricate wroughtiron screens to hide any occupants,
looked down on the streets and canals, and white domes banded with
scarlet or gold rose to points as sharp as the towers.

Need. Shift.

It might as well have been a different city. The street was narrow and
unevenly paved, hemmed in on both sides by buildings five and six
stories high, their white plaster flaked away in many places to expose
the brick beneath. There were no balconies here. Flies buzzed about, and
it was hard to say whether it was still dawn because of the shadows down
on the ground.

They exchanged looks. It seemed unlikely they would find a ter’angreal
here, but they had gone too far to stop now. Need.

Shift.

Nynaeve sneezed before she could open her eyes, and again as soon as
they were open. Every shift of her feet kicked up swirls of dust. This
storeroom was not at all like that in the Tower. Chests, crates and
barrels crowded the small room, piled every which way atop one another,
with barely an aisle left between, and all under a thick layer of dust.
Nynaeve sneezed so hard she thought her shoes would come off—and the
dust vanished. All of it. Elayne wore a small smug smile. Nynaeve said
nothing, only fixed the room firmly in her mind without dust. She
should have thought of that.

Looking over the jumble, she sighed. The room was no larger than the one
where their bodies lay sleeping in Salidar, but searching through all
that. . . . “It will take weeks.”

“We could try again. It might at least show which things to look
through.” Elayne sounded as doubtful as Nynaeve felt.

Still, it was as good a suggestion as any. Nynaeve closed her eyes, and
once more came the shift.

When she looked again, she was standing at the end of the aisle away
from the door, facing a square wooden chest taller than her waist. The
iron straps seemed all rust, and the chest itself looked to have spent
the last twenty years being beaten with hammers. A less likely
repository for anything useful, especially a ter’angreal, Nynaeve
could not imagine. But Elayne was standing right beside her, staring at
the same chest.

Nynaeve put a hand on the lid—the hinges would open smoothly—and
pushed it up. There was not even the hint of a squeal. Inside, two
heavily rusted swords and an equally brown breastplate with a hole eaten
through it lay atop a tangle of clothwrapped
parcels and what seemed to be the refuse from somebody’s old
clothespress and a couple of kitchens.

Elayne fingered a small kettle with a broken spout. “Not weeks, but the
rest of the night, anyway.”

“Once more?” Nynaeve suggested. “It could not hurt.” Elayne shrugged.
Eyes shut. Need.

Nynaeve reached out, and her hand came down on something hard and
rounded, covered with crumbling cloth. When she opened her eyes.
Elayne’s hand was right next to hers. The younger woman’s grin nearly
split her face in two.

Getting it out was not easy. It was not small, and they had to shift
tattered coats and dented pots and parcels that crumbled to reveal
figurines and carved animals and all sorts of rubbish. Once they had it
out, they had to hold it between them, a wide flattish disc wrapped in
rotted cloth. With the cloth stripped away, it turned out to be a
shallow bowl of thick crystal, more than two feet across and carved
deeply inside with what appeared to be swirling clouds.

“Nynaeve,” Elayne said slowly, “I think this is. . . .”

Nynaeve gave a start and nearly dropped her side of the bowl as it
suddenly turned a pale watery blue and the carved clouds shifted slowly.
A heartbeat later, the crystal was clear again, the carved clouds still.
Only she was certain the clouds were not the same as they had been.

“It is,” Elayne exclaimed. “It’s a ter’angreal. And I will bet
anything it has something to do with weather. But I’m not quite strong
enough to work it by myself.”

Gulping a breath, Nynaeve tried to make her heart stop pounding. “Don’t
do that! Don’t you realize you could still yourself, meddling with a
ter’angreal when you don’t know what it does?”

The fool girl had the nerve to give her a surprised stare. “That is
what we came to look for, Nynaeve. And do you think there is anyone
who knows more about ter’angreal than I do?”

Nynaeve sniffed. Just because the woman was right did not mean she
should not have given a little warning. “I’m not saying it isn’t
wonderful if this can do something about the weather—it is—but I don’t
see how it can be what we need. This won’t shift the Hall one way or the
other about Rand.”

“‘What you need isn’t always what you want,’ ” Elayne quoted. “Lini used
to say that when she wouldn’t let me go riding, or climb trees, but
maybe it holds here.”

Nynaeve sniffed again. Maybe it did, but right
now she wanted what she wanted. Was that so much to ask?

The bowl faded out of their hands, and it was Elayne’s turn to give a
start, muttering about never getting used to that. The chest was closed,
too.

“Nynaeve, when I channeled into the bowl, I felt. . . . Nynaeve, it
isn’t the only ter’angreal in this room. I think there are angreal,
too, maybe even sa’angreal.”

“Here?” Nynaeve said incredulously, staring around the cluttered little
room. But if one, why not two? Or ten, or a hundred? “Light, don’t
channel again! What if you make one of them do something by accident?
You could still—”

“I do know what I am doing, Nynaeve. Really, I do. The next thing we
have to do is find out exactly where this room is.”

That proved to be no easy task. Though the hinges seemed solid masses of
rust, the door was no impediment, not in Tel’aran’rhiod. The problems
began after that. The dim narrow corridor outside had only one small
window at its end, and that showed nothing but a peeling whiteplastered
wall across the street. Climbing down cramped flights of stonefaced
stairs did no good. The street outside could have been the first they
had seen in this quarter of the city, wherever that was, all the
buildings as near alike as made no difference. The tiny shops along the
street had no signs, and the only thing marking inns were bluepainted
doors. Red seemed to indicate a tavern.

Nynaeve strode off searching for some landmark, something to pinpoint
their location. Something to say what the city was. Every street she
came to seemed like the last, but she quickly found a bridge, plain
stone, unlike the others she had seen, and lacking statues. The center
of its arch showed her only the canal, meeting others in both
directions, more bridges, more buildings with flaking white plaster.

Suddenly she realized she was alone. “Elayne.” Silence, except for the
echo of her voice. “Elayne? Elayne!”

The goldenhaired woman popped around a corner near the foot of the
bridge. “There you are,” said Elayne. “This place makes a rabbit warren
look well planned. I turned my head for an instant, and you were gone.
Did you find anything?”

“Nothing.” Nynaeve glanced down the canal again before joining Elayne.
“Nothing at all useful.”

“At least we can be sure where we are. Ebou Dar. It must be.” Elayne’s
short coat and wide trousers became a green silk
gown with spills of lace dangling over her hands, a high elaborately
embroidered collar, and a narrow neckline deep enough to show
considerable cleavage. “I can’t think of another city with so many
canals except Illian, and this is certainly not Illian.”

“I should hope not,” Nynaeve said faintly. It had never even occurred to
her that a blind search might take them into Sammael’s lair. Her own
dress had changed, she realized, to a deep blue silk suitable for
traveling, complete with a linen dustcloak. She made the cloak vanish,
but left the rest.

“You would like Ebou Dar, Nynaeve. Ebou Dari Wise Women know more about
herbs than anybody. They can cure anything. They have to, because Ebou
Dari fight duels over a sneeze, noble or common, men or women.” Elayne
giggled. “Thom says there used to be leopards here, but they left
because they found Ebou Dari too touchy to live with.”

“That’s all very well,” Nynaeve told her, “but they can run each other
through as much as they want for all I care. Elayne, we might as well
have put the rings away and just slept. I couldn’t walk back to that
room from here if I was to receive the shawl when I got there. If only
there was some way to make a map. . . .” She grimaced. As well ask for
wings in the waking world; if they could take a map out of
Tel’aran’rhiod, they could take the bowl.

“Then we will just have to come to Ebou Dar and search,” Elayne said
firmly. “In the real world. At least we know what part of the city to
look in.”

Nynaeve brightened. Ebou Dar lay only a few hundred miles down the Eldar
from Salidar. “That sounds a very good notion. And it will get us away
before everything falls on our heads.”

“Really, Nynaeve. Is that still the most important thing to you?”

“It is one important thing. Can you think of anything else to do here?”
Elayne shook her head. “Then we might as well go back. I’d like a little
real sleep tonight.” There was no telling how much time had passed in
the waking world while you were in Tel’aran’rhiod; sometimes an hour
there was an hour here, sometimes a day, or more. Luckily, it did not
seem to work the other way, or at least not as much anyway, or you might
starve to death sleeping.

Nynaeve stepped out of the dream . . .

. . . and her eyes popped open, staring into her pillow, which was as
sweatdamp as she. Not a breath of air stirred through the open window.
Silence had fallen over Salidar, the loudest sound the thin cries of
night herons. Sitting up, she untied the cord around her neck and
unstrung the twisted stone ring, pausing for a
moment to finger Lan’s thick gold ring. Elayne stirred, then sat up
yawning and channeled a stub of candle alight.

“Do you think it will do any good?” Nynaeve asked quietly.

“I do not know.” Elayne stopped to muffle a yawn behind her hand. How
could the woman manage to look pretty yawning, with her hair a mess and
a red wrinkle from a pillow marring one cheek? That was a secret Aes
Sedai ought to investigate. “What I do know is that bowl may be able to
do something about the weather. I know a cache of ter’angreal and
angreal has to be put in the right hands. It’s our duty to hand them
over to the Hall. To Sheriam, anyway. I know if it doesn’t make them
support Rand, I’ll keep hunting until I find something that does. And I
know I want to sleep. Could we talk about this in the morning?” Without
waiting for an answer, she doused the candle, curled up again and was
breathing the deep, slow breaths of sleep as soon as her head hit the
pillow.

Nynaeve stretched out again, staring at the ceiling through the
darkness. At least they would be on their way to Ebou Dar soon.
Tomorrow, maybe. A day or two, at most, to ready themselves for the
journey and stop a passing riverboat. At least. . . .

Suddenly she remembered Theodrin. If it took two days to get ready,
Theodrin would want her two sessions, sure as a duck had feathers. And
she expected Nynaeve not to sleep tonight. There was no possible way she
could know, but. . . .

Sighing heavily, she climbed out of bed. There was not much room to
pace, but she used it all, getting angrier by the minute. All she wanted
was to get away. She had said she was not very good at surrendering, but
maybe she was getting good at running away. It would be so wonderful to
channel whenever she wanted. She never even noticed the tears that began
leaking down her cheeks.

 


