Fire and Spirit 


Pausing in the shade in front of the Little Tower, Nynaeve carefully
dabbed at her face, then tucked the handkerchief back up her sleeve. Not
that it did much good—sweat popped out again right away—but she wanted
to look her best inside. She wanted to look cool, serene, dignified.
Small chance of that. Her temples were throbbing, and her stomach felt
. . . fragile; she had not been able to look at breakfast this morning.
Just the heat, of course, but she wanted to go back to her bed, curl up
and die. To top it off, her weather sense was nagging at her; the molten
sun should have been hidden by roiling black clouds and threatening
bolts of lightning.

The Warders lounging out front did not look like guards at first glance,
but they were. They reminded her of the Aiel she had seen in the Stone
of Tear; they probably looked like wolves even when asleep. A bald,
squarefaced man, no taller than she but nearly as wide as he was tall,
trotted out of the Little Tower and down the street, the hilt of the
sword on his back thrusting up over his shoulder. Even he—Jori, bonded
to Morvrin—managed it.

Topknotted Uno passed, threading his horse through the crowd and hardly
seeming to acknowledge the heat despite the steel plates and mail that
covered him from the shoulders down. He twisted in his saddle to watch
her with his good eye, and her face darkened. Birgitte had talked.
Every time the man saw her he was obviously
waiting for her to ask him for horses. She was almost ready to. Even
Elayne could not say they were doing any good. Well, she could, and did,
but she should not.

Uno rode out of sight around a corner, and Nynaeve sighed. She was just
trying to put off going inside. Myrelle might be there. Blotting her
face again, she frowned at her wrinkled hand—today would be the eleventh
scrubbing pots, with twentynine more to go; twentynine!—and went in.

It was slightly cooler in what had been the common room when the Little
Tower was an inn, offering a little relief to her aching head. Everyone
called it “the waiting room” now. No time had been wasted for repairs
here. The fireplaces had stones missing, and lathing showed through
holes in the plaster. Areina and Nicola were working brooms with another
novice, but making little impression on the ageroughened floor; Areina
wore a scowl, but, then, she was never pleased at having to do chores
with the novices. No one went choreless in Salidar. At the far end of
the room Romanda was speaking with two slender, aged Aes Sedai—their
faces might be ageless, but their hair was white—plainly new arrivals by
the thin dustcloaks still hanging down their backs. No sign of Myrelle,
which brought a sigh of relief; the woman raked Nynaeve over the coals
at every opportunity, then raked her the other way! Aes Sedai sat at
tables, mismatched but carefully arranged in rows, working over
parchments or issuing orders to Warders and servants, but fewer than the
first time she had seen the room. Only the Sitters and their servants
lived on the floors above now; everyone else had been removed to make
space for Aes Sedai to work in. The Little Tower had taken on attributes
of the White Tower, the precise formality above all. When Nynaeve first
saw this room it had had a bustle about it, an air of something being
done. A false air, then. Now it seemed almost slow, but it was the feel
of the White Tower.

Approaching one of the tables, not the nearest, she curtsied carefully.
“Pardon, Aes Sedai, but I was told Siuan and Leane are here. Could you
tell me where to find them?”

Brendas’ pen stopped moving and she looked up with cool dark eyes.
Nynaeve had chosen her instead of someone nearer the door because
Brendas was one of the few Aes Sedai who had never grilled her about
Rand. Besides, once, when Siuan was Amyrlin, Siuan had chosen Brendas as
one who could be trusted. That had nothing to do with this, but Nynaeve
found small comforts where she could.

“They are with some of the Sitters, child.” Brendas’ voice was chimes,
as emotionless as her pale face. Whites seldom
showed emotion, but Brendas never showed any.

Nynaeve stifled an irritated sigh. If Sitters had them reporting on
their eyesandears, they might not be free for hours yet. Maybe not for
the rest of the day. By then she would be headdown among the pots.
“Thank you, Aes Sedai.”

Brendas stopped her curtsy with a gesture. “Did Theodrin make any
progress with you yesterday?”

“No, Aes Sedai.” If her voice was bit tight, a touch curt, she had
reason. Theodrin had said she meant to try everything, and apparently
she really did mean everything. Yesterday’s effort had involved sipping
wine to relax her, only somehow Nynaeve had ended up taking more than
just a few sips. She did not think she would ever forget being carried
back to her room singing—singing!—or remember without going red in the
face. Brendas had to know. Everyone had to know. Nynaeve wanted to
writhe.

“I only ask because your studies seem to be suffering. I’ve heard
several sisters remark that you appear to have reached the end of your
remarkable discoveries. Your extra chores might be the problem—but
Elayne reveals something new every day, even with teaching her classes
and working at the pots. A number of sisters are wondering whether they
might not be able to help you more than Theodrin can. If we took it in
turns, working you all day every day might prove more fruitful than
these informal sessions with someone who is, after all, little more than
Accepted herself.” It was all delivered in a level tone without the
slightest accusation, yet Nynaeve’s face heated as if she had been
shouted at.

“I’m sure Theodrin will find the key any day, Aes Sedai,” she almost
whispered. “I will try harder, Aes Sedai.” Bobbing a hurried curtsy, she
whirled around before Brendas could stop her again. With the result that
she bumped into one of the two whitehaired newcomers. They looked
enough alike to be sisters in truth, almost mirror images of one
another, with fine bones and long patrician faces.

The bump was more of a brush, really, and she did try to apologize, but
the Aes Sedai fixed her with a stare to do a hawk proud. “Watch where
you are going, Accepted. In my day, an Accepted who tried to trample Aes
Sedai would have had hair whiter than mine by the time she finished
scrubbing floors.”

The other touched her arm. “Oh, do let the child go, Vandene. We have
work to do.”

Vandene directed a sharp sniff at Nynaeve, but
allowed herself to be led outside.

Waiting a moment to let them leave, Nynaeve saw Sheriam come out of one
of the meeting rooms with Myrelle, Morvrin and Beonin. Myrelle saw her,
too, and started in her direction, but only a step before Sheriam and
Morvrin each put a hand on the Green sister’s arms and spoke quickly and
softly, with many a glance at Nynaeve. Still talking, the four crossed
the room and disappeared through another door.

Nynaeve waited until she was back in front of the Little Tower before
giving her braid a firm, deliberate tug. They had met the Wise Ones last
night. Guessing why the others had stopped Myrelle from speaking was
easy enough. If Egwene had finally been there in the Heart of the Stone,
she was not to be told. Nynaeve al’Meara was in disgrace. Nynaeve
al’Meara was scrubbing pots like a novice when she might have been at
least a step higher than Accepted. Nynaeve al’Meara was getting nowhere
with Theodrin, and all her marvelous discoveries had dried up. Nynaeve
al’Meara would never be Aes Sedai. She had known it was a mistake to
start funneling everything from Moghedien through Elayne. She had known
it!

Her tongue tried to curl up at the memory of a vile taste. Boiled
catfern and powdered mavinsleaf. An antidote she had used on many a
child who would not stop lying. All right; she had been the one to
suggest it herself, but it was still a mistake. Aes Sedai were no longer
talking about her innovations; they talked about the lack of them. Aes
Sedai who had never taken more than a passing interest in her block were
now caught up in how to break it down. She could not win. One way or
another she was going to end up with Aes Sedai examining her from hair
to toenails, sunup to sundown.

She yanked harder on her braid, hard enough to hurt her scalp, and the
way her head felt, that did nothing for her temper. A soldier in an
archer’s flat helmet and padded jerkin slowed to look at her curiously,
but she gave him such a stare of refined malevolence that he stumbled
over his own feet and quickly lost himself in the throng. Why did
Elayne have to be so stubborn?

A man’s hands closed on her shoulders, and she whirled about with words
that would rip his head from his neck. They died on her tongue.

Thom Merrilin grinned down at her through his long white mustaches,
sharp blue eyes twinkling in his gnarled face. “By the look of you,
Nynaeve, I could almost think you were angry, but I know you have such a
sweet disposition people ask you to dabble your fingers in their tea.”

Juilin Sandar was there beside him, the lean
fellow looking carved from dark wood, leaning on his thumbthick bamboo
staff. Juilin was Tairen, not Taraboner, but he still wore that
ridiculous flattopped conical red cap, even more battered than she had
last seen it. He snatched it off when she glanced at him. Both men were
dusty and travelworn, their faces gaunt, though neither had been
particularly fleshy to begin with. They looked as if they had spent the
weeks since leaving Salidar sleeping in their clothes when they were not
in the saddle.

Before Nynaeve could open her mouth, they were hit by a human storm.
Elayne flung herself at Thom so hard he staggered. He of course put his
hands under her arms and hoisted her, whirling her around in a circle
like a child despite his slight limp. He was laughing when he set her
down again, and so was she. She reached up and tugged at one of his
mustaches, and they fell to laughing even harder. He examined her hands,
as wrinkled as Nynaeve’s, asking what sort of trouble she had dived into
without him to keep her on the straight and narrow, and she replied that
she had no need of anyone to tell her what to do, only she spoiled it by
blushing, and giggling, and biting her lip.

Nynaeve took a deep breath. Sometimes the pair of them took playing at
father and daughter entirely too far. Sometimes Elayne seemed to think
she was about ten, and so did Thom. “I thought you had a novice class
this morning, Elayne.”

The other woman glanced at her sideways, then gathered herself in an
attempt at decorum that came too late, and set about straightening her
banded dress. “I asked Calindin to take it,” she said casually. “I
thought I might keep you company. And I’m glad I did,” she added with a
grin for Thom. “Now we can hear everything you learned in Amadicia.”

Nynaeve sniffed. Keep her company indeed. She did not remember
everything about yesterday, but she remembered Elayne laughing while
getting her undressed and putting her to bed with the sun not yet all
the way down. And she was sure she remembered the woman asking whether
she wanted a bucket of water to cool her head.

Thom noticed nothing; most men were blind, though he was sharp enough
usually. “We will have to be quick,” he said. “Now Sheriam’s drained us
dry, she means to have us report to some of the Sitters in person.
Luckily, it boils down well enough. There aren’t enough Whitecloaks
along the Eldar to keep a mouse from crossing, if he had drums and
trumpets to announce him a day ahead. Except for a strong force on the
Tarabon border and the men he has trying to hold back the Prophet in the
north, Niall seems to be gathering every last
Whitecloak around Amadicia, and Ailron is pulling in his soldiers, too.
Talk of Salidar had started in the streets before we left, but if Niall
has even thought about the place twice, I could find not a hint of it
anywhere.”

“Tarabon,” Juilin muttered, studying his cap. “All ill country for
anyone who doesn’t know how to take care of herself, or so we heard.”

Nynaeve was not sure which of the two was best at dissembling, but she
was sure either could lie to your face to make a wool merchant blue with
envy. And right then, she was sure they were hiding something.

Elayne saw more than that. Gripping Thom’s lapel, she peered up at him.
“You heard something about Mother,” she said calmly, and it was not a
question.

Thom knuckled his mustaches. “There are a hundred rumors on every street
in Amadicia, child, each wilder than the last.” His gnarled leathery
face was pure innocence and openness, but the man had not been innocent
the day he was born. “It’s said the whole White Tower is here in
Salidar, with ten thousand Warders ready to cross the Eldar. It’s said
Aes Sedai have captured Tanchico, and Rand has wings he uses to fly
around in the night, and—”

“Thom?” Elayne said.

He snorted, glaring at Juilin and Nynaeve as though this were their
fault. “Child, it’s just a rumor, as crazed as any we heard. I could not
confirm anything, and believe me, I tried. I meant not to mention it. It
just stirs up your pain. Let it pass, child.”

“Thom.” Much firmer. Shifting his feet, Juilin looked as if he wished he
were somewhere else. Thom just looked grim.

“Well, if you must hear it. Everybody in Amadicia seems to think your
mother is in the Fortress of the Light, that she’s going to lead an army
of Whitecloaks back to Andor.”

Elayne shook her head, laughing softly. “Oh, Thom, do you think I would
worry over something like that? Mother would never go to the
Whitecloaks. I could wish she had. I could wish she was alive too. Even
though it violates everything she ever taught me—bringing foreign
soldiers into Andor; and Whitecloaks!—I could wish it. But if wishes
were wings . . .” Her smile was sad, but it was a muted sadness. “I have
done my grieving, Thom. Mother is dead, and I must do my best to be
worthy of her. She would never have gone running after ridiculous
rumors, or wept over them either.”

“Child,” he said awkwardly.

Nynaeve wondered what if anything he himself
felt about Morgase’s death. Hard as it was to believe, he had been
Morgase’s lover once, when she was young and Elayne little more than a
babe. Back then he must not have looked as though he had been left to
dry in the sun too long. Nynaeve knew little more of how or why it ended
than that he had slipped out of Caemlyn with an arrest warrant at his
heels. Not the mark of a love to be told in the stories. At the moment
he certainly appeared concerned only with whether Elayne was telling the
truth or hiding her hurt, with patting her shoulder and stroking her
hair. If Nynaeve had not wished they would just once snap at one another
like normal people, she would have thought it a pretty picture.

A throat clearing broke up the vignette. “Master Merrilin?” Tabitha
said, spreading her white dress in a quick curtsy. “Master Sandar?
Sheriam Sedai says the Sitters are ready to receive you. She says you
were not supposed to leave the Little Tower.”

“The Little Tower, is it?” Thom said dryly, eyeing the former inn.
“Elayne, they can’t keep us forever. When we’re done, you and I can
discuss . . . whatever you wish.” Motioning Tabiya to lead, he marched
inside, his limp obvious, the way it was when he was tired. Juilin
squared his shoulders and followed as though walking to a gallows; he
was Tairen, after all.

Nynaeve and Elayne stood there, neither quite looking at the other.

Finally, Nynaeve said, “I was not—” at the same time that Elayne said,
“I should not—” They cut off together, and moments passed in fidgeting
with skirts and blotting faces.

“It is too hot to just stand here,” Nynaeve said at last.

It was unlikely that the Sitters who were hearing Siuan and Leane’s
reports would stop to hear Thom and Juilin’s. They split such things
among them. That left Logain, much as she wished it did not. She would
not learn anything. But it was better than twiddling her thumbs until a
dozen Aes Sedai descended on her with an hourly schedule.

With a sigh she started down the street. Elayne came along as though she
had been invited. That helped Nynaeve find the anger she was going to
need. Abruptly she realized that Elayne’s wrists were bare.

“Where is the bracelet?” she asked softly. No one in the street would
understand if they heard, but caution once forgotten could be forgotten
once too often. “Where is Marigan?”

“The bracelet is in my pouch, Nynaeve.” Elayne stepped aside to let a
highwheeled cart pass, then joined Nynaeve again behind the cart.
“Marigan is doing our laundry, with about twenty
other women around her. And groaning every time she moves. She said
something she didn’t think Birgitte would hear, and Birgitte. . . . I
had to take the thing off, Nynaeve. Birgitte had the right, and it
hurt. I told Marigan to say she fell down some stairs.”

Nynaeve sniffed, but her heart was not in it. She had not been wearing
the bracelet much of late. Not because she could not hand over anything
she dug out as her own. She was still sure Moghedien knew something
about Healing even if she did not realize it herself—nobody could be
that blind—and there was the trick of detecting a man’s channeling that
Moghedien kept saying they almost had right. The truth of it was, she
was afraid she might do far worse than Birgitte had if she had any more
contact with the woman than was absolutely necessary. Maybe it was the
way satisfaction seemed to underlie everything else even when Moghedien
was groaning from the fedback pain of Nynaeve trying to master that
detection. Maybe it was remembering how afraid she had been, alone with
the woman without the bracelet. Maybe growing disgust at keeping one of
the Forsaken from judgment. Maybe some of all of it. What she did know
was that she had to make herself put on the bracelet now, and that
whenever she saw Moghedien’s face, she wanted to pound it with her
fists.

“I should not have laughed,” Elayne said. “I am sorry I did.”

Nynaeve stopped dead so suddenly that a horseman had to jerk his reins
to keep from riding over her. He shouted something before the crowd
carried him away, but shock muffled his words beyond hearing. Not shock
at the apology. At what she had to say. The right thing to say. The
truth.

Unable to look at Elayne, she started walking again. “You had every
right to laugh. I. . . .” She swallowed hard. “I made a complete fool of
myself.” She had. A few sips, Theodrin said; a cup. And she emptied the
pitcher. If you were going to fail, better to have some other reason
than that you just could not do it. “You should have sent for that
bucket and dunked my head until I could recite The Great Hunt of the
Horn without a mistake.” She risked a glance from the corner of her
eye. Small spots of color rested in Elayne’s cheeks. So there had been
mention of a bucket.

“It could happen to anyone,” the other woman said simply.

Nynaeve felt her own cheeks heating. When it had happened to Elayne, she
had dunked the girl to wash away the wine. “You should have done
whatever you needed to . . . to sober me.”

It was quite the oddest argument Nynaeve could remember, with her
insisting she had been a total fool and deserved
whatever came of it, while Elayne made excuse after excuse for her.
Nynaeve did not understand why it felt so refreshing, taking all the
blame on herself that way. She could not recall ever doing that before,
not without hedging as far as she was able. She very nearly got angry
with Elayne for not agreeing that she had been a childish buffoon. It
lasted until they reached the small thatched house on the edge of the
village where Logain was kept.

“If you don’t stop this,” Elayne said finally, “I vow I’ll send for a
bucket of water right this instant.”

Nynaeve opened her mouth, then closed it again. Even in this newfound
euphoria of admitting she had been wrong, that was going too far.
Feeling this good, she could not face Logain. Feeling this good, it
would be useless anyway, without Moghedien and the bracelet she
definitely felt too fine to put on. She glanced at the two Warders
standing guard beside the stonelinteled door. They were not close
enough to hear, but she still pitched her voice low. “Elayne, let’s go.
Tonight.” With Thom and Juilin in Salidar, there was no need to ask Uno
to find horses. “Not to Caemlyn, if you don’t want. To Ebou Dar.
Merilille will never find that bowl, and Sheriam will never let us go
find it. What do you say? Tonight?”

“No, Nynaeve. What good can we do Rand if they take us for runaways?
Which is what we’d be. You promised, Nynaeve. You promised, if we found
something.”

“I promised if we found something we could use. All we’ve found is
this!” Nynaeve thrust her shriveled hands under the other woman’s nose.

The firmness slid from Elayne’s face, and her voice; she pursed her lips
and studied the ground. “Nynaeve, you know I told Birgitte we were
staying. Well, it seems she told Uno that under no circumstances was he
to provide you with a horse unless she said so. She told him you were
thinking of running away. I didn’t find out until it was too late.” Her
head tossed irritably. “If this is what having a Warder is like, I don’t
know why anybody wants one.”

Nynaeve thought her eyes might burst from indignation. So that was why
he had been staring at her. Euphoria vanished in a heat of—well, partly
anger, partly humiliation. The man knew; he thought she. . . . Wait.
For a moment she frowned at Elayne, then decided not to voice the
question that had come to mind. Was Nynaeve the only name Birgitte had
mentioned to Uno, or was Elayne perhaps included? Elayne had found
herself quite an adopted family. In Thom, an indulgent father who wanted
to teach her everything he knew, and in Birgitte, an older sister who
thought it was her job to keep the younger from
breaking her neck riding horses she could not handle yet.

“In that case,” she said flatly, “let’s see what I can learn from
Logain.”

It was a small house, only two rooms, but thick stone walls made it
relatively cool. Logain was in his shirtsleeves, smoking a pipe and
reading by a window. The Aes Sedai were taking good care of him. The
chairs and tables were as fine as anything in Salidar—nothing elaborate,
but well made, though nothing matched anything else—and a scrollwoven
redandgold carpet covered much of a floor that was swept so clean
Nynaeve doubted he did the sweeping.

He set his book down when they entered, seemingly not at all put out by
the lack of a knock. Rising leisurely, he tapped out his pipe, donned
his coat and only then made a smooth leg. “It is good to see you again
after so long. I thought you had forgotten me. Will you join me in some
wine? The Aes Sedai keep me on short supply, but what they do let me
have is not bad at all.”

The offer of wine would have been enough—Nynaeve barely suppressed a
wince—if she had needed more. Thinking of Uno, the fact that he was male
was enough. No need to pull up any of her anger from the Little Tower.
Thinking of it added its bit, though. The True Source was suddenly
there, an unseen warmth just out of sight. She opened herself, and
saidar flooded her; if what she had felt earlier was euphoria, this
was beyond ecstasy. She was surrendering to it, burn Theodrin!

“Sit down,” she told him coldly. “I’ll have no chatter out of you.
Answer when you’re spoken to, and otherwise hold your tongue.”

Logain only shrugged and complied, meek as a puppy. No, not meek; that
smile was pure insolence. Part came from his feelings toward Aes Sedai,
Nynaeve was certain, and part. . . . He watched Elayne take another
chair, arranging her skirts with a studied care, and even if Nynaeve had
not seen what he was looking at, she would have known it was a woman.
There was no smirking about it, no leering, just. . . . Nynaeve did not
know what, only that he directed the same at her, and she was suddenly
very much aware that she was a woman and he a man. Maybe it was just
that he was handsome and had broad shoulders, but she liked to think
better of herself. Of course that was not it.

Clearing her throat, she wove filaments of saidar into him, Air and
Water, Fire and Earth, Spirit. All the elements of Healing, but used now
to probe. It would have helped to lay her hands on him, but she could
not bring herself to do that. Bad enough to touch him with the Power. He
was healthy as a bull and almost as strong,
nothing wrong with him in the slightest—except for the hole.

It was not really a hole, more a feeling that what seemed continuous was
not, that what seemed smooth and straight was really skirting around an
absence. She knew that sensation well, from the early days, back when
she thought she might really learn something. It still made her skin
crawl.

He looked up at her intently. She did not remember moving closer. His
face was fixed in a mask of brazen contempt; she might not be Aes Sedai,
but she was the next thing to it.

“How can you do all of that at once?” Elayne asked. “I could not keep
track of half of it.”

“Hush,” Nynaeve murmured. Hiding the effort required, she took Logain’s
head in her hands roughly. Yes. It was better with physical contact, the
impressions sharper.

She directed the full flow of saidar into where the hole should have
been—and was almost surprised to find an emptiness. Of course, she still
did not expect to learn anything. Men were as different from women in
the Power as they were in flesh, maybe more so. She might as well study
a rock to find out about fish. It was hard to keep her thoughts on what
she was doing, knowing she was only going through motions, killing time
as it were.

What is Myrelle going to say? Would she keep back a message from
Egwene? That emptiness, so small she could pass right over it, was vast
once she slipped the flows inside, immense enough to swallow them all.
If only I could talk to Egwene. I’ll wager once she knows the Tower is
sending an embassy to Rand, and the Aes Sedai here are just sitting on
their hands, she’ll help me convince Elayne we’ve done all we can here.
Vast emptiness; nothingness. What about what she had found in Siuan and
Leane, the feel of something cut? She was sure it was real, however
faint. Men and women might be different, but maybe. . . . All I need to
do is talk to her somehow. She’ll see that Rand would be better off with
us there. Elayne will listen to her; Elayne thinks Egwene knows Rand
better than anybody else. There it was. Something cut. Just an
impression, but the same as in Siuan and Leane. So how do I find her?
If only she’d pop into our dreams again. I’ll bet I can talk her into
joining us. The three of us would do much better with Rand. Together, we
could tell him what we learn in Tel’aran’rhiod, keep him from making
some woolheaded mistake with the Aes Sedai. She’ll see that. Something
about that cut. . . . If it was bridged with Fire and Spirit, so. . . .

It was the slight widening of Logain’s eyes that told her what she had
done. Breath froze in her throat. She backed
away from him so fast she stumbled over her skirt.

“Nynaeve,” Elayne said, sitting up straight, “what is the mat—?”

A heartbeat, and Nynaeve had all of saidar she could hold redirected
into a shield. “Go find Sheriam,” she said hurriedly. “Nobody else but
Sheriam. Tell her. . . .” She drew a deep breath that seemed like her
first in hours; her heart was speeding to beat galloping horses. “Tell
her I’ve Healed Logain.”

 


