
TWO 

The Prince Returns

Like the dragons that made the kingdom their home, Caledor was wreathed
in smoke and fire. Sulphurous ash clouds obscured the dark peaks of the
Caledorian mountains, lit from below by the ruddy glow of volcanoes.
Mingled with the billowing fumes were glowering storm clouds that
flickered with lightning, the rumble of thunder merging with the crack
of eruptions. Streams of hot lava flowed down the slopes; where they met
the lakes and rivers, great columns of steam rose into the air. Pocked
and cracked, the volcanic rock vented its subterranean fury through
hundreds of geysers and fumaroles, while in dormant calderas thick
forests grew, lush from the fertile minerals spewed forth in ages past.

It was a place of stark contrasts and harsh beauty, and even Imrik’s
hard heart stirred at the sight. He was tired from the long journey;
twenty days of near-constant flight, the last eleven over the ocean made
without break. His fatigue slipped away as he caught sight of Tor Caled,
his home city. Nestled in the eastern flank of the mountains, the city
was a massive edifice of walls and towers, shaped from the raw element
of the volcanoes by the magic of Caledor Dragontamer and his followers.
Towers like stalagmites, slender and graceful, rose up from steep hills
on the coast; the city’s wall flowed down to the water’s edge in
undulating curves, black stone glistening with veins of red. A moat of
lava protected the other side of the city, crossed by a hundred arcing
bridges of granite, each protected by two towers at each end. Huge
monoliths banded with silver and gold speared from the river of fire,
glowing with ember runes that kept the flames at bay.

Not in Imrik’s lifetime had any foe tested the capital of Caledor, but
in the time of the Dragontamer it had been an unyielding bulwark against
the daemons. In those terrible days the flames that had girdled the city
had risen as high as the towers, and the bridges had been cast down.
Many were the paintings and murals that decorated the palaces and houses
of the nobility depicting the epic battles that had been waged over the
mountains.

Outside the city were the dragon grounds; a wide expanse of scattered
bushes and hard earth populated by underground chambers housing
attendants from Tor Caled’s noble families. Divested of their harnesses
here, the dragons bade farewell to the princes and flew away to their
roosting caves deep within the mountains.

Within the wall, the city was no less fortified and imposing. Though
centuries of peace had laid a gentler touch upon the battlements and
turrets of the grand houses, with many murals and mosaics brightening
the hard stone, Tor Caled’s founding in war was plain to see. The layout
of the streets, unchanged for millennia, wound back and forth up the
slope, looked down on by each level above so that defenders could pour
arrows and magic into an attacking force. The cliffs that separated the
level of the city above each row of buildings were protected by redoubts
and embrasures, surrounded by nests of spear-like outthrusts to protect
against attack from the air. At each turn, huge gatehouses could be
closed to bar the road, twenty in all between the wall and the summit.
Even now bolt throwers and sentries stood guard at these watchtowers.

The streets were busy as Imrik, Dorien and Thyrinor took horse and rode
up the winding street. The lower parts of Tor Caled were given over to
commerce, three turns of the road filled with traders’ stalls and the
shop fronts of craftsmen. The next four levels were the residences of
the normal folk of the city, though even these were magnificent villas
with their own gardens; Caledor was not a populous realm and barely a
tenth of its people dwelt within the city, the others living in
fortified towns throughout the mountains and along the coast of the
Inner Sea. Before the pinnacle of the city came the artificers’ quarter,
where many wonderful and ornamental things were created, and dwarfish
wares were on display.

Thyrinor made his excuses here, leaving his cousins to look for a
homecoming present for his wife. Dorien and Imrik rode on, occasionally
remarking on some shop or stall that had opened or closed in the five
years they had been absent. Aside from the details, nothing had changed
from the city Imrik remembered, and he was reassured by the sense of
unchanging stability.

When they arrived at the palaces, a soaring spectacle of towers, turrets
and balconies that delved into the slope of the mountain, they were
informed that Caledrian was out of the city attending to business
matters. Dorien and Imrik parted and went to be reunited with their
families.

Word of Imrik’s arrival had preceded him, as he had expected, and his
wife Anatheria greeted him at the grand entrance to the palaces. At her
side, a young boy stood clutching her long dress, an unruly shock of
blond hair obscuring his face. Imrik embraced his wife without comment,
and crouched down in front of his son.

‘Standing up now,’ said the prince, clasping a hand to Tythanir’s
shoulder. The boy shrank back, blue eyes wide and fearful. Imrik
laughed.

‘What did I teach you, Tythanir?’ Anatheria said sternly.

The boy stepped to one side and stood with feet together, hands gripped
tightly against his stomach. He looked at Imrik with studied solemnity.

‘Welcome home, father,’ said Tythanir, bobbing his head.

‘That’s good,’ said Anatheria, ruffling her son’s hair with slender
fingers. She looked at Imrik. ‘And what do you say, husband?’

‘It is good to be home,’ said Imrik, pulling his son closer, arm around
his shoulders. He planted a kiss on the boy’s forehead. ‘You grow up
fast, son.’

Tythanir grinned and wrapped his arms around Imrik’s armoured leg,
looking up at his father.

‘Did you ride a dragon?’ said the boy.

‘Yes, son, I did,’ Imrik replied. ‘One day, so will you.’

Though Imrik had not thought it possible, Tythanir’s grin grew even
wider and his eyes looked up to the mountains.

‘I’ll be the most famous dragon prince ever!’ the boy declared. ‘And
I’ll lead armies like you and everyone will know who I am.’

‘I have no doubt,’ said Imrik, with a glance to Anatheria. ‘You will
become the pride of Caledor.’

Taking the boy’s hand, he walked into the palaces, his wife beside him.
Tythanir broke from his grasp and ran ahead, chattering to himself as he
pointed at the tapestries lining the hallway, each depicting the lords
of Caledor on their dragons.

‘I will not be staying long,’ Imrik told his wife.

‘I know,’ she replied. ‘Caledrian spoke with me before he sent his
letter. I think this will be good for us. Your brother is too dismissive
of Bel Shanaar, and the other kingdoms find greater favour with the
Phoenix King. Your brother’s ambassadors have been in Tor Anroc too long
and are beguiled and rendered mute by its charms. Our status must be
reasserted.’

‘I am more concerned with Nagarythe,’ said Imrik as the two of them
followed Tythanir along the carpet running the length of the long hall.
‘Their isolation these last decades cannot bode well. Malekith’s absence
has left Morathi free to aggrandise herself. The Naggarothi are not only
arrogant, they are becoming dangerous. Their grip of the colonies is
still strengthening.’

‘Then you must persuade Bel Shanaar and the other princes to weaken that
grip,’ said Anatheria. ‘Make them see the danger.’

‘You and the boy will stay here,’ said Imrik.

‘Why?’ replied his wife, directing a scowl at him. ‘Tythanir has already
spent more than half his life away from his father.’

‘I do not wish our son to be raised in Tor Anroc,’ said Imrik. ‘These
are important years in his life, and he must learn the traditions of
Caledor.’

Anatheria was not placated by this reasoning and quickened her pace to
catch up with her son. Imrik ran a few steps and gently grabbed her arm.
She snatched it from his grasp but stopped.

‘I know that you find your family burdensome, but you are a husband and
a father and have responsibilities,’ she snapped, keeping her voice low,
darting a look at Tythanir. He was engrossed with a suit of dragon
armour, running his hands over the inlaid gems. ‘You have an heir, as
you desired; now you must do your duty by him.’

‘I have returned,’ Imrik said, raising his voice in annoyance.

‘Not by your choice,’ said his wife, turning away. ‘Always you place
duty to Caledor above your family.’

‘I will do right by you and my son,’ said Imrik, softening his tone.
‘That is why you must remain here. Tor Anroc is not an ocean away. I
will see Tythanir often enough, both here and there.’

He did not know if his wife heard him. She took her son by the hand and
walked away, leaving the prince in the hallway. Imrik shook his head,
frustrated. Though Anatheria might never comprehend the demands on a
prince of the Dragontamer’s line, Tythanir would understand as he grew
older. To be a leader of elves was in his blood, a legacy of his great
lineage.

Feeling suddenly uncomfortable, Imrik wondered if it was his armour or
the weight of something else.

Eight days after arriving home, Imrik was told that his brother was
returning to Tor Caled within the next two days and was to be met by the
court of Caledor. Imrik passed word to the other princes and nobles,
sending ­riders to those who lived outside the city. It was an occasion
of some remark as the lords of Caledor assembled; not for centuries had
they all been gathered at the capital.

The city was abuzz with rumour, and more than once Imrik rebuked members
of his household for indulging in speculation. Tor Caled swarmed with
the entourages of the arriving nobles, and gala feasts were held each
night to celebrate every arrival. By the light of red lanterns the elves
danced and sang in the plazas and streets, needing only small excuse for
festivity.

On the morning before Caledrian was due to arrive, another important elf
appeared in the city: Hotek, the high priest of Vaul. On hearing this
news, Imrik travelled to the main gate to meet Hotek in person and
conduct him to the palaces with due ceremony. Though often bored by
state functions and the interminable mingling that they entailed, Imrik
held dear the oldest customs of Caledor and formally welcomed Hotek.

His deference was not so much to the elf, but to his position, for it
was the high priest of Vaul, Hotek’s predecessor, who had aided Caledor
Dragon­tamer in the forging of many weapons and artefacts during the war
against the daemons. Such help had not been without risk, and several
times the shrine at the mount of Vaul’s Anvil had been assailed by the
minions of Chaos. Though incurred in millennia past, Imrik stayed true
to the debt his bloodline owed to the priests, and said as much on
greeting Hotek.

‘I repay the homage, Imrik,’ said Hotek as the two stepped aboard a
golden carriage with an awning of green and grey dragon scales. The
priest cut a severe figure: his face thin even for an elf, his high
cheekbones and brow sharp, his white hair swept back by a band of black
leather studded with ruddy bronze. Most remarkable were his eyes, of
pure white. Like those that he led in his order, Horek had ritually
blinded himself, to share in the suffering of Vaul. He showed no sign of
discomfort or disability for the loss, his other senses, including his
innate mystical awareness, heightened to compensate for his lack of
sight. All the same, Imrik was always slightly disconcerted when talking
to a priest of Vaul and kept his gaze away from Hotek’s face.

‘In you and your family, the honour and strength of the Dragontamer
remains strong,’ Hotek continued. ‘So few there are these days whose
call the dragons heed. It is a testament to you that they count you as
an ally when so many of their kind have taken the long slumber of
aeons.’

As the four horses set off up the steep road, Hotek arranged his heavy
blue robes more comfortably and leaned back in his seat. He knitted his
fingers across his chest, each digit weighed down by a jewelled ring,
and about his wrists and neck were many fine chains of silver, gold and
other gleaming metals.

‘To what do I owe the pleasure of this invitation?’ the priest asked,
head turned towards the prince as though he could see him. ‘Caledrian’s
missive simply stated that he was bringing together the full court of
Caledor, and that as high priest of Vaul I have by tradition a seat in
that esteemed gathering.’

‘I do not know for sure,’ Imrik replied. ‘He called me back from Elthin
Arvan to represent Caledor at Tor Anroc, but I have heard no more since
my return. The continuing strange behaviour of the Naggarothi concerns
him.’

‘The Naggarothi?’ Hotek attempted to appear casual, but Imrik noticed a
sudden tension in the priest’s body and voice. ‘What concern of the
Caledorians are the affairs of Nagarythe?’

‘Perhaps none,’ said Imrik. ‘Even at Vaul’s Anvil you must have heard
that they have closed their borders. Don’t you think that strange?’

‘The shrines are beyond the politics and boundaries of individual
kingdoms,’ Hotek replied, waving a hand airily, relaxed again. ‘If the
Naggarothi want to keep to themselves, I welcome it. The better for the
rest of us to be free of their stern expressions and snide remarks.’

‘It is said that they openly worship the cytharai,’ said Imrik. ‘Khaine
for certain, and the other undergods likely. In the colonies, they are
quite ­brazen about it.’

‘We do not dictate to others how they choose to appease the gods,’ said
Hotek with a shrug. ‘I know that they endeavour to spread the worship of
the cytharai to other kingdoms and cities, but their proselytising falls
on ears unwilling to listen for the most part. Better to ignore them and
let the metal cool than temper it to hardness with accusations and
persecution.’

‘Your shrine, it fares well?’ asked Imrik.

‘Our days as armourers to the princes have thankfully long passed,’
Hotek said. ‘Today we fashion amulets not swords, rings not shields. And
much time is spent in the study of such dwarfen artefacts that come into
our possession. They are most remarkable pieces, unlike anything
fashioned in Ulthuan. Sometimes crude to look at, I admit, but
containing simple yet powerful enchantments.’

The conversation continued in similar vein until they reached the
palaces. Imrik passed the care of Hotek to the servants of his older
brother and with his duties discharged, spent the rest of the morning
playing with Tythanir. At noon, the time of his brother’s expected
arrival, he made his way to the great hall, which had been set with a
ring of high-backed chairs for the council, nearly a hundred in all.
Caledrian’s throne faced the huge doors, his advisors already waiting
beside it and most of the nobles already present.

Imrik took his place to the right hand of the throne, Dorien on the
other side, with Thyrinor next to him. The hall soon filled, leaving
only a handful of places of nobles that had been unable or unwilling to
attend. The muffled call of clarions rang from the citadel walls
announcing Caledrian’s arrival. The assembled elves stood and awaited
his entrance, a quiet whispering rebounding from the painted walls of
the hall.

A stamp of feet preceded the opening of the doors. All eyes turned on
Caledrian as he entered. The ruler of Caledor was dressed in a long robe
of white, patterned with golden thread in curling flames, a wide belt
about his waist and a narrow circlet on his head. He strode into the
hall without much ceremony, waving a hand in greeting to some of his
councillors, stopping to have quick conversations with others. He had an
easy smile, and clasped hands and shoulders without unease, but Imrik
thought he saw a certain stiffness in his brother’s movements that
betrayed some burden he carried.

Imrik stepped up to meet his brother as he reached the throne. He
embraced Caledrian, as did Dorien, and the three stood together for a
moment.

‘It is good to see both of you here,’ said Caledrian. He glanced past
Dorien and smiled at Thyrinor. ‘And you, cousin. I wish that our reunion
took place in happier times, but I have grim tidings. After the council,
we will feast together and become properly reacquainted.’

With that, Caledrian signalled for the council to be seated, though he
remained standing. Imrik noticed that another elf had joined the short
line of Caledorian dignitaries behind the throne. He was a little
stockier than the others, with grey hair and almost white skin;
certainly not of Caledor. He wore a purple robe of light material, so
that it flowed from his arms and legs in the slightest draught. He was
relaxed yet alert, eyes never still as they took in the details of the
hall and its occupants.

‘My gratitude to you all for coming here at such short notice,’ declared
Caledrian, drawing Imrik’s attention away from the newcomer. ‘There has
been much speculation as to my activities of late, so let me put rumour
to rest. Not long ago, I received representation from Bel Shanaar.’ He
waved a hand towards the elf that Imrik had been watching. ‘This is
Tirathanil, a herald of the Phoenix King. He bore to me alarming news,
and we have spent days in debating its import and the wishes of Bel
Shanaar. The matters are of such import that, according to custom, I
will lay them before this council and conduct a vote to know the wishes
of Caledor.’

The prince sat on his throne and paused; the councillors leaned forwards
in their seats, anxious to hear what he had to say next, their eyes
fixed upon Caledrian.

‘For years we have heard of an unsettling rise in the open worship of
the cytharai,’ he continued. ‘Each of us knows tales from the other
kingdoms of some of the depravities involved in these rituals, and I am
thankful to acknowledge that such practices have not encroached upon
Caledor. It is Bel Shanaar’s suspicion, and I share it, that these cults
are under the sway of Nagarythe. More specifically, that they owe
allegiance to Morathi. We are not content to allow this state of affairs
to remain unchanged.

‘If it is the intent of this council, we shall answer the summons of Bel
Shanaar to attend to his court at Tor Anroc, there to discuss what
action will be taken. As many of you know, I had already made plans for
noble Imrik to act on my behalf, and the greater urgency that now faces
us only strengthens my belief in that decision.’

Caledrian looked to Imrik for a moment and then returned his gaze to the
council members.

‘It is not his will nor mine that Imrik will carry with him, but the
will of this council,’ said Caledrian. ‘No proposal for action has been
put forward by Bel Shanaar and I have heard nothing of the desires of
the other princes. Thus Caledor will, as in times past, take the lead in
this matter. With due respect to the wisdom of the council, it is my
belief that the kingdoms must unite in purpose and in arms and destroy
these cults wherever they are found. There are those that see no need
for action and there are some that even support these cults in secret.
We must root out those in thrall to Morathi and bring them before the
judgement of the Phoenix King.’

‘Why stop there?’ said Dorien. There were mutters of annoyance and
scowls from the rest of the council; it was not proper form to speak
before being invited by the ruling prince. Dorien paid no heed to the
whispers of irritation. ‘You say it yourself that Nagarythe is the
source of this menace. Malekith has abandoned his kingdom and allowed it
to fall into barbarism and hedonism. We all know that Morathi is not to
be trusted. I say that we subject Nagarythe to the rule of the Phoenix
King until Malekith returns; if he ever does. Too long have we allowed
our cousins in the north their wayward practices. It is time they were
brought to account for it, and stability restored.’

There were nods of agreement from many in the council, and a few members
clapped softly or slapped a hand to thigh in appreciation. Imrik agreed
with the sentiment, but knew that any direct action against Nagarythe
would be tantamount to invasion. He was inclined to believe Caledrian
did not desire to go so far, and was certain that Bel Shanaar would
never endorse such a thing unless given extreme provocation. Imrik saw
no reason to comment, knowing that the council would decide regardless
of his opinion on the matter.

Several council members indicated their willingness to speak, Hotek
amongst them. The priest received a word from Caledrian and stood up,
hands behind his back. He took a few paces towards the throne, and as
dictated by convention addressed his thoughts to the ruling prince,
though his words were for the whole council.

‘I am wary of any persecution of these cults,’ said Hotek, his voice
soft and melodious. ‘Not because I support them, but because we risk
escalating isolated violence into a greater strife. I deplore these base
rites as much as any of you, and know that for each disturbing story
there is possibly another fouler act committed unseen. Unless proof can
be presented that these cults are acting in concert, that the hand of
Morathi controls them, it would be unwise to raise up arms against our
own people. My sect once provided Aenarion and your forefathers with
weapons to free this isle from death; we will not provide them to be
used against those we are sworn to protect. For the most part these are
simple people, not corrupt of heart but misguided or simply indolent and
bored. Bel Shanaar has allowed this circumstance to arise by his
inaction, it is true, but it would be foolish to over react. It is not
too late to allow peace to prevail.’

‘A sentiment we all share,’ said Caledrian. ‘Yet we cannot allow this
depravity of spirit to fester any longer. Only by stern efforts have we
kept Caledor free of the cults’ taint; others have not been so
successful. The other kingdoms are uncertain in their power, unwilling
to do what is necessary to bring Ulthuan back from the brink of
disorder. We must take a lead where others have shirked their duties.’

‘Perhaps if we could speak with Tirathanil?’ suggested Eltaranir, one of
the oldest members of the council, whom Imrik considered as an uncle. He
had been a close friend of Imrik’s father, Menieth; they had attended
the First Council together when Bel Shanaar had been chosen to succeed
Aenarion, and it had been Eltaranir that had borne Menieth’s body back
from the colonies when he had been slain in the wars of conquest.

Caledrian waved to the Phoenix King’s herald to come forwards.
Tirathanil did so with a slight swagger, pleased with the sudden
attention. His pomposity deflated under Eltaranir’s scrutiny.

‘There is little I can add that your prince has not already told you,’
said the herald. ‘Yet I will endeavour to answer any questions you
have.’

‘Has Bel Shanaar received any news of Malekith?’ asked Hotek. ‘It is
dubious to discuss the kingdom of another prince when he cannot
represent himself.’

‘The Phoenix King knows nothing more of Malekith than any of you,’ said
Tirathanil. ‘That he still lives is likely, and continues his
exploration of the northern wastes. As for representation, Nagarythe it
was that severed ties to Tor Anroc, despite several attempts by myself
and others to make embassy to them. If Morathi still rules, she does not
answer the Phoenix King’s invitations to court.’

‘If she still rules?’ Thyrinor pounced on the turn of phrase. ‘Why
should she not?’

‘There is rumour of infighting amongst the Naggarothi,’ admitted
Tirathanil. ‘How extensive or violent it is, we do not know. It is the
Phoenix King’s assessment that in Malekith’s long absence, the princes
of Nagarythe struggle for power.’

‘Perhaps we should aid whoever seeks to overthrow Morathi,’ suggested a
voice from the council.

‘An outrageous suggestion!’ said Eltaranir. ‘To meddle so in the
rulership of one kingdom is to invite dissent in every kingdom. It is
only through our pacts of non-interference that we are able to govern as
befits each realm. We must be wary of every accusation levelled at
Nagarythe. Many princes are jealous of the Naggarothi power and would
take opportunity to undermine it. We are not free of such envy; would
you have every scurrilous rumour and accusation made against Caledor
used as an excuse to pry into our lives?’

The council member who had spoken sat down with a chagrined expression.
More than a dozen other elves raised their hands to be acknowledged and
a background of whispering began. Caledrian called each in turn to
speak, though they added little that was meaningful to the discussion,
which went on through the afternoon. Imrik listened to each speech
intently, seeking to solidify his own feelings on the matter. His
instinct was to act quickly and decisively, but as he heard proposal and
objection, his certainty wavered.

By the time the sky was darkening beyond the high windows, Imrik felt
ready to speak. He shifted in his chair and caught Caledrian’s eye. When
the next opportunity presented itself, Caledrian nodded to Imrik.

The prince stood, thumbs hooked into his broad belt. He looked first at
Dorien, and then at the rest of the council. The hall was quiet, the
private discussions fading away as Imrik turned to Caledrian. Not once
had any objection been raised to his appointment as ambassador, and
every elf was keen to hear his personal view on the issues.

‘We must fight,’ said Imrik. He raised a hand for silence as protests
echoed around the chamber. ‘We cannot attack Nagarythe. No prince can
send his warriors into the lands of another without permission. Bel
Shanaar must broker an agreement between the kingdoms. Each shall
provide forces to the Phoenix King, which will operate under his
authority alone. Every kingdom will be purged in turn. Those cultists
that repent their associations with the cytharai and desire clemency
will receive it. Those that oppose the will of the princes will be
imprisoned, or slain if they resist with violence.’

Imrik sat down again.

Silence followed as each elf digested this plan. Caledrian was deep in
thought on his throne, his advisors whispering to him.

‘Do you think Bel Shanaar will agree?’ Imrik asked Tirathanil. All eyes
turned on the herald, awaiting his reply.

‘In principle, yes,’ said Tirathanil. He took a deep breath before
continuing. ‘I think you will find some support amongst the other
princes. With Caledor’s support, they will be able to sway the opinion
of those that are less committed.’

Caledrian stood up, signalling to Tirathanil to withdraw behind the
throne. The prince crossed his arms and swept his gaze slowly around the
circle of elves.

‘We have a proposal to vote upon, as composed by Imrik,’ said Caledrian.
‘Make your decision known. I suspend my right of view in this matter. If
the council endorses this course of action, it will be final.’

A few elves stood immediately, supporting Imrik’s plan. There was some
conversation and shuffling, and then the others rose to their feet until
only Hotek was left seated. The priest of Vaul smiled and nodded at
Imrik, and stood up.

‘The vote is unanimous,’ declared Caledrian. A self-congratulatory
murmur rippled around the ring of council members. The ruling prince
looked at Imrik. ‘Tirathanil returns to Tor Anroc tomorrow, brother. Can
you leave that soon?’

Imrik considered his options. He had no desire for the negotiations his
plan would require, and in the short time he had been in Tor Caled he
had made efforts to reconcile with Anatheria and make himself better
known to Tythanir. It would take some time for other princes to answer
Bel Shanaar’s call and the wait would be arduous. He could imagine
himself kicking his heels in the Phoenix King’s palace, forced to pass
the time with the Tiranocii nobility in endless banquets and galas.

Yet it would be improper to remain idle in Tor Caled when he had
important duties to attend.

‘No point waiting,’ he said. ‘I’ll leave tomorrow.’

The number of princes, nobles and envoys tested the capacity of the
Phoenix King’s palace, which was one of the largest buildings in
Ulthuan. Imrik and Thyrinor, having taken ship along the coast of the
Inner Sea to Ellyrion and then ridden westwards to Tor Anroc through the
Annulii Mountains, found the city bustling; claustrophobic compared to
the colonies and Tor Caled.

Imrik was silently grateful for the fact that the Caledorian entourage,
which included a handful of scribes and servants in addition to the
princes, was accommodated in one of the houses in the centre of the city
rather than within the palace itself. This gave Imrik some of the
solitude he required, and the events of the first few days of the visit
sent the prince into isolated retreat several times.

There were so many people to meet, so many introductions, ceremonies and
feasts, Imrik was wholly reliant upon Thyrinor to remember who everybody
was and where he was supposed to be. More delegations arrived each day,
adding to Imrik’s sense of bewilderment. It appeared that many of the
attendants did not understand the gravity of the occasion, and saw the
convening of the Phoenix King’s court as an opportunity to extend their
usual festivities and politics. On uncertain ground, Imrik had held his
tongue on a number of occasions, advised by Thyrinor to hold his
patience and not unduly antagonise anybody; a feat Imrik found
difficult, since most elves found his taciturn nature bordering on
insult in itself.

There were fewer princes present than Imrik had hoped. Many of the
eastern kingdoms had sent ambassadors instead; though they professed to
speak and act with the authority of the princes, Imrik could not treat
with them as equals as any assurances they made would have to be
ratified later by their masters. It meant that the whole business of
discussing the growing problems of the cultists and the situation in
Nagarythe descended into petty wrangles and interminable discussions
about the exact phrasing of a proposal or the true meaning of another
delegate’s words.

A few princes had made the journey, and Imrik found them to be of a
generally more tolerable nature than the other attendants. In
particular, he found Thyriol of Saphery to be calm and wise amongst the
tumult, and had considerable respect for the mage who had learnt his
mystical arts under the tutelage of Imrik’s grandfather. Finudel and
Athielle, joint rulers of Ellyrion, were also pleasant company. Though
both displayed disarming humour and quick wit, they were ever conscious
of the importance of the council.

Imrik had spent some time with these three elves listening to their
opinions on Nagarythe and voicing the proposal of Caledor to form a
united army under the banner of the Phoenix King. Other than a
perfunctory greeting when he had arrived, Imrik had spent no time
discussing his views with Bel Shanaar, but on the sixth day of the
council, he was due to speak before the Phoenix King.

He met with Thyrinor and Thyriol beforehand, and brought up his
uncertainty at expressing his plans in a way that would meet favour with
the Phoenix King.

‘I am not eloquent,’ Imrik admitted as the three princes drank fruit
juices in the gardens of Imrik’s adopted house. Autumn cloud and sun
mingled overhead, bathing the immaculate lawn in periods of warmth and
shade, while birds and bees flitted about the carefully maintained
hedges and trees. ‘I am too abrupt. Bel Shanaar will think I am telling
him what to do.’

‘Perhaps you should phrase your proposals as questions, cousin,’ said
Thyrinor, reclining on a white stone bench beside a shallow pool of
clear water. Bubbles broke the pond as jade-scaled fish swam lazily just
under the surface, their bodies glinting. ‘Lead Bel Shanaar to come to
the answers you wish him to.’

‘That is not a gift I have,’ said Imrik. ‘I was never a good student of
rhetoric.’

‘Do not be overly concerned by your mannerisms,’ Thyriol assured him.
Dressed in a rich yellow and gold robe, the Sapherian mage sat in the
shade beneath a tree, eyes closed. ‘You do not know Bel Shanaar well,
but he is well versed in statecraft and will listen not to your words
but to your message. It was with some personal difficulty that he has
gathered the council. He has critics, and there are those willing to say
the Phoenix King is too weak to act on his own.’

‘No doubt those whispers were first formed on the lips of Morathi and
her lackeys,’ said Thyrinor. ‘Even in the colonies, there has been quiet
but constant campaign against Bel Shanaar; ever with the assumption that
Malekith should have been chosen instead.’

‘Let them grumble,’ said Imrik. ‘My father had as much claim as the
Dragontamer’s successor. Caledor has no love for the Phoenix King, but I
will give Bel Shanaar the respect he earns.’

‘Grumbles may seem unimportant to you, but every rumour and snippet is
valuable here,’ warned Thyriol, opening his eyes. ‘Even you must be
aware that as unpopular as the Naggarothi are, the Caledorians are not
high in the affections of the other kingdoms. Your dragons scare them.’

‘So they should,’ said Imrik. ‘It is not Caledor’s fault if they have
strength when other kingdoms allow themselves to be weak.’

‘They are not as weak as they once were,’ said Thyrinor. ‘The port of
Lothern in Eataine is becoming one of the largest cities in Ulthuan, and
her fleet dwarfs ours. Cothique and Yvresse have outposts all over the
world. Even gentle Saphery, our companion’s kingdom, is renowned for the
skill and power of her mages. We cannot rely upon the dragons for
eternity. Only a handful remain that do not sleep beneath the mountains,
and it will not be long before they too choose to slumber.’

‘Which is why we’re here,’ said Imrik. ‘The Phoenix King alone can
harness that strength.’

‘But will he be willing?’ Thyrinor directed the question to the mage.

‘Bel Shanaar is concerned, but not desperate,’ replied Thyriol. ‘Your
proposal has merit that he will see, but if it is not the desire of the
other kingdoms, he will not give your plan his backing.’

‘Your voice would lend weight to our argument,’ said Thyrinor. ‘Not only
as the prince of Saphery, but as one who elevated Bel Shanaar to Phoenix
King.’

‘There is some truth to that,’ said Thyriol, smiling faintly. ‘Bel
Shanaar and I fought against the daemons under Aenarion, and there are
few left who can claim such an achievement.’

‘We should go now,’ said Imrik, glancing up at the sun. Noon was
approaching, the appointed hour for his audience with the Phoenix King.
‘I would not keep Bel Shanaar waiting.’

The corridors of the outer palace were comparatively quiet; it had been
made known that the Phoenix King had set aside the whole day for
representations of the princes present, with no lesser agents permitted.
There were bows and words of deference to Thyriol from the few other
elves they met, and platitudes offered to Imrik, as the princes made
their way to the main hall of the palace.

Though they were early, Bel Shanaar’s chamberlain, Palthrain, was
waiting for them at the hall doors. Palthrain bowed in greeting and
offered a few pleasantries.

‘Is Bel Shanaar receiving audience yet?’ asked Imrik.

‘Enter when you wish,’ said Palthrain. ‘The Phoenix King lends his ear
to Athielle and Finudel presently, but they have made it known you are
welcome to join the discussion.’

Imrik took a breath and nodded to Palthrain, who signalled for the
attendants to open the doors. The hall beyond was vast, its roof held up
by slender pillars inscribed with golden runes, the ceiling cunningly
painted to represent a spring sky, lit from dozens of arched windows.

At the far end, Bel Shanaar sat upon a throne wrought in the shape of a
phoenix, wings outspread. A long cloak of white feathers draped over the
throne from his shoulders, hemmed with a band of golden thread and hung
with sapphires. The Phoenix King wore formal robes layered in white and
gold, delicately embroidered with silver swirls of flame and glittering
runes. Elves showed little sign of age, no matter how ancient, and Bel
Shanaar’s face was only faintly lined despite his centuries of
existence. He did not wear the elaborate Phoenix Crown; instead his pale
blond hair was swept back with a golden band decorated with a single
emerald at his forehead. His eyes were bright blue, alert as Athielle
spoke, her voice quiet but carrying along to Imrik by the perfect
acoustics
of the hall.

‘They are raiders, pure and simple,’ the princess said. ‘They come
across the mountains and take unattended herds. It is the worst kind of
theft, to steal the horses of Ellyrion.’

‘Yet you offer no proof of this larceny,’ said Bel Shanaar. ‘Your herds
go missing and you spring to blame the Naggarothi, when a more likely
explanation is some monstrous hunter from the Annulii. A feral
hippogryph perhaps, or a hydra?’

‘And Nagarythe is not a poor kingdom,’ added another prince. Imrik knew
him to be Elodhir, the son of Bel Shanaar. ‘If the Naggarothi desired
horses, they would buy them.’

‘Not from us,’ said Finudel. ‘We have concern that they do not treat
their herds well. Their arrogance has become overbearing, their attitude
to their beasts verging on cruelty.’

Palthrain made known the arrival of the princes as Imrik, Thyrinor and
Thyriol entered the hall. The others ceased their conversation and
waited for the arrivals to join them. Palthrain made formal
introductions, though all the elves were known to each other.

‘It is an honour to welcome the representatives of Caledor to this
chamber,’ said Bel Shanaar, dismissing Palthrain with a casual wave. ‘I
hope that your kingdom fares well, and Caledrian also.’

‘Our fortunes are as usual,’ said Imrik. ‘My brother is worried by the
rise in the cults that taints much of Ulthuan. Caledor remains free of
these sects, but it is not an easy task.’

‘And there are those who have laboured in vain to halt the progress of
the cults,’ said Athielle. ‘It is not from lack of watchfulness that
these cults prosper. Caledor perhaps owes as much to the patrol of our
common border as it does the vigilance of its leaders.’

‘No accusation was meant,’ said Imrik. ‘What has happened cannot be
changed. What we do next, that is what must be decided.’

‘Imrik has a proposal I believe worth hearing,’ said Thyriol, his robes
glinting in the sunshine streaming through the high windows. The mage
turned to Imrik and nodded.

‘Each kingdom alone has attempted to halt the spread of the cults, and
failed,’ said Imrik. He offered a shrug of apology to Finudel and
Athielle. ‘It seems to me that this is a problem for all of Ulthuan.
Only you, the Phoenix King, can claim authority over the whole isle. Use
your position to assemble an army drawn from every kingdom. Appoint a
general, or lead the army yourself, and purge the cults from each
kingdom in turn.’

The Phoenix King and princes said nothing, perhaps waiting for Imrik to
elaborate on his plan. He had nothing else to offer at the moment and
stayed silent. Eventually Bel Shanaar stirred, leaning forwards in his
throne.

‘An army?’ he said, quiet but firm. ‘That is your solution?’

Imrik glanced at Thyrinor, but received no assurance from his cousin’s
blank expression.

‘The cults are a threat,’ said Imrik. ‘They need to be dealt with. An
army may be uncivilised, but it will be effective.’

‘Violence has never been the cure for any ill,’ said Bel Shanaar.

‘The orcs and beasts of Elthin Arvan disagree,’ said Imrik. ‘To avoid
violence is laudable; to shirk your duty as the defender of Ulthuan is
not.’

‘Be careful with your remarks,’ snapped Elodhir. ‘You address the
Phoenix King! Do not forget the oaths you swore before the sacred flame
of Asuryan. Caledor is yet part of Ulthuan and one of the Phoenix King’s
domains.’

‘I remember my oaths,’ Imrik said in return, turning his fierce gaze
from Elodhir to Bel Shanaar. ‘Does the Phoenix King? He remembers the
darkest days of our people. Harsh times that needed harsh answers. The
cults have festered too long.’

‘Such disrespect will not be tolerated,’ Elodhir replied, but Imrik
ignored him, his attention focussed on the Phoenix King.

‘Silence, my son,’ said Bel Shanaar. ‘Imrik has some cause for
complaint, though he chooses not to sweeten his bitter message with
softer words. He is right; I swore oaths to defend Ulthuan against all
enemies and perils. That this peril is of our own creation does not make
it any better than those that assail us from beyond our borders; in many
ways, it is far worse.’

‘A show of determination will be enough for many in the cults,’ said
Athielle. ‘Their leaders, those that ensnare the desperate and unwary,
they need to be dealt with by the full force of justice. Those who
follow, those who simply seek some other meaning to their existence or
to lose themselves in senselessness, can be shown the error of their
ways without punishment.’

‘An army invites resistance,’ said Elodhir. ‘The threat of violence will
prompt the cultists to defend themselves.’

‘They have already committed violence,’ said Thyriol. The mage’s slender
fingers tugged at the sleeves of his robe as he spoke. ‘Sacrifices have
been made, lives taken. There are stories from every kingdom of cults
choosing to fight and die rather than subject themselves to the mercy of
their prince and his warriors.’

‘And that violence will escalate,’ said Bel Shanaar. ‘The cults are
scattered, disorganised and of more spiritual than physical threat.’

‘I disagree,’ said Finudel. ‘They are aided by Nagarythe, of that I am
sure.’

‘Sure, but without evidence,’ said Bel Shanaar. ‘You would have me
outlaw an entire kingdom based on rumour.’

‘Not rumour,’ said Athielle, her temper flaring. ‘Bodies we have found,
of herdmasters slain. Others have disappeared without trace, and the
elders of remote towns have been intimidated and murdered.’

‘And the Naggarothi dead from these raids?’ said Elodhir. ‘You have
found them?’

The silence of Athielle and Finudel was the only answer they could
offer. Elodhir shook his head and looked at his father.

‘It seems that we have been offered no greater insight into the
problem,’ said the Phoenix King. ‘We are no closer to a solution than at
this time yesterday.’

‘Action is required,’ said Imrik. ‘It is inaction that has allowed the
cults to flourish.’

‘I will make no hasty decision,’ said Bel Shanaar. ‘The situation grows
more volatile and I would not risk provoking it without good cause. I
will consider your position, Imrik. Please take refreshments and rejoin
me this evening.’

Imrik was about to offer further argument but saw that the others were
already bowing and turning away, accepting the Phoenix King’s dismissal.
He did the same, choosing not to risk Bel Shanaar’s anger, keeping his
sharp words to himself for the moment.

When they had left the hall, Thyrinor beckoned for Imrik to leave the
others and the pair found an unoccupied chamber not far from the
audience hall. Murals depicting the Tiranoc coast decorated the walls,
moving from placid summer shores to winter storms as the scene subtly
changed as one looked around the circular room.

There were cushioned benches, and side tables laden with fruit, wine and
water. Thyrinor picked up a jug and poured golden wine into a crystal
goblet, and then remembered to offer the same to Imrik, who declined.

‘I need a clear head,’ said Imrik, slumping onto one of the benches. He
took an apple from a platter near at hand and bit deeply, savouring the
freshness of the fruit. ‘Bel Shanaar is too cautious. Yet the more I
push him, the less I will achieve.’

‘It is for your forcefulness that you were chosen, cousin,’ said
Thyrinor. He took a mouthful of wine, eyes closed. He opened them after
a moment. ‘This is really rather good wine. Anyway, it is not Bel
Shanaar that you need to worry about for the moment. His concern is the
reception he will receive from the other delegations. Finudel and
Athielle will back you, of that I am sure. Thyriol too, I would think,
as he has offered no counter to our plan. You must persuade the others.’

‘How do I do that?’ asked Imrik, finishing off the apple. ‘It seems to
me that no kingdom wishes to take responsibility.’

‘Then show them the leadership lacking in Bel Shanaar,’ said Thyrinor.
‘Why not offer to lead the army?’

‘No,’ Imrik said immediately. ‘I have no desire to do that.’

‘Why not? You are a natural general, and you have the respect of many
other princes, if not their friendship.’

‘I cannot lead the warriors of other kingdoms,’ replied Imrik. ‘I cannot
trust them.’

‘But you would trust another to lead them?’

Imrik left the question unanswered. His only concern was the safety of
Caledor. That meant ridding the rest of Ulthuan of the pernicious
cytharai cults, just as it had meant destroying the greenskins and the
forest beasts that threatened the colonies of his kingdom. It was not a
role he relished, though it was one he filled with pride. The thought of
being answerable directly to Bel Shanaar troubled him; the prospect of
working closely with the princes of other kingdoms unsettled him.

‘Will you at least speak with the representatives of the other
kingdoms?’ said Thyrinor, pouring himself a second glass of wine. ‘If
you gain their backing, Bel Shanaar will have no choice but to support
our proposal.’

‘And how do I do that?’ said Imrik. ‘They will see it as Caledor trying
to gain more power. They see everything through eyes tinted with envy.’

With a heavy sigh, Thyrinor put his goblet to one side and crossed his
arms.

‘Are you regretting your decision to accept this duty?’ he said. ‘I find
your negativity arduous to endure, cousin, and others will feel
likewise. You bring them doom instead of offering hope. Give them
something to put their trust in. If you are to succeed you must support
Bel Shanaar and make the others believe in his ability to lead our
people.’

‘A belief I do not have,’ said Imrik. ‘Would you have me lie?’

‘You can be intolerable!’ Thyrinor threw up his hands. ‘Why are you here
at all, if you have no belief that we can succeed?’

‘It is my duty,’ replied Imrik.

‘Is that all? Do you not fear for the Ulthuan in which your son will
grow up?’

‘While Caledor remains strong, he will be untouched by this malaise,’
said Imrik. ‘That is my only concern.’

‘Caledor cannot resist the rest of Ulthuan forever,’ said Thyrinor,
taking up his wine and drinking swiftly. ‘The dragons cannot fight
against the whispers that scratch at the spirit of our people. The
mountains are no bulwark against the insidious nature of melancholy and
boredom. If Caledor is to remain free, the rest of Ulthuan must be freed
first.’

‘I understand,’ said Imrik, confused by his cousin’s misplaced
frustration. ‘I see your point. With the backing of Caledor, the Phoenix
King will command the authority he deserves.’

‘So, will you speak with the others?’

‘Yes,’ said Imrik, standing. ‘But not at the same time. I must speak
with each delegation in turn. I cannot stand to be dragged into their
bickering.’

‘Then I will organise things,’ said Thyrinor, finishing his drink. He
took a few steps towards the door and stopped. ‘Please try to be civil
to them.’

For the whole afternoon, Imrik tried as hard as possible to be civil,
ignoring the veiled slights directed at Caledor and the innuendo cast
upon the delegations of the other kingdoms. He spoke with each group of
representatives, outlining the Caledorian plan for a campaign against
the cults. Thyrinor did much of the speaking, taking care to emphasise
the importance of each kingdom in the grand scheme, ensuring that it was
the listeners that believed they would have the most control. By the
time Palthrain found the pair in the late afternoon, at least five other
kingdoms had indicated their support and promised to make representation
to Bel Shanaar; none had yet been willing to declare their support
openly.

As before, Imrik found Bel Shanaar, Elodhir, Thyriol, Finudel and
Athielle in the king’s audience chamber. There were a few other elves
around, sitting on the great amphitheatre of benches that surrounded the
Phoenix Throne. Imrik ignored them and strode up to Bel Shanaar.

‘Have you decided?’ said Imrik.

‘You have been busy,’ replied Bel Shanaar. ‘Since our last conversation,
I have had constant visitors proposing the idea of an army drawn from
all of the kingdoms.’

‘I intend no trickery,’ Imrik said quickly, sensing he was being accused
of some subterfuge.

Bel Shanaar smiled, though he did not deign to share the reason for his
amusement. He gave Thyriol a nod and the mage held up a rolled
parchment.

‘This is the first draft of a declaration,’ said Thyriol, handing the
scroll to Thyrinor. ‘It declares the open worship of the cytharai to be
illegal and calls upon all elves to renounce the undergods.’

‘That is all?’ said Imrik. ‘What of the army?’

‘One thing at a time,’ said Elodhir. ‘First we must get agreement that
action needs to be taken. When that has been secured, we can discuss
what form that action will take.’

‘Winter will come swiftly,’ said Imrik. ‘If we do not strike now, it
will be next spring before we can move. It will take many days to gather
warriors from the whole of Ulthuan. The call must be sent out
immediately.’

‘Your presumption is incredible,’ said Elodhir. ‘We will not let you
bully the other kingdoms into agreeing with you.’

‘We?’ Imrik looked hard at Bel Shanaar. ‘Only one elf is Phoenix King.’

‘And I speak as prince of Tiranoc also,’ said Bel Shanaar. ‘Mine is a
double burden of rulership. Would you have me declare war on my
subjects?’

Imrik heard the noise of others entering, but paid no heed to the
newcomers. Anger warred with disappointment in his heart. Before
returning to this hall, he had thought progress had been made; in
reality very little would be agreed any time soon.

‘Captain Carathril of Lothern, your majesty.’ Palthrain’s voice rang
down the hall.

‘Thank you, Palthrain,’ Bel Shanaar said, still not looking at the
arrivals.

Imrik glanced over his shoulder and saw Palthrain bowing and departing,
leaving two elves in armour, wearing the colours of Lothern. Both
appeared to be officers, but he did not recognise them from the Eataine
delegation. He dismissed them from his thoughts as irrelevant.

‘We cannot show mercy,’ said Imrik with a shake of his head. ‘The people
need our strength.’

‘But many of them are victims as much as they are perpetrators,’
cautioned Bel Shanaar. ‘They are brought low by their own terrors, and
the priests and priestesses play on their fears and manipulate their
woes. I have spoken with some who claim that they did not realise how
debased they had become. There is dark magic in this, some more evil
purpose that we have not yet seen.’

‘Then we must find their ringleaders and question them,’ suggested
Elodhir. The prince took a pace towards his father. ‘We cannot simply
allow the cults to spread unchecked. If we should allow that to happen,
our armies will be eaten away by this menace, our people consumed by
their own desires. No! Though it is perhaps a harsh judgement on some,
we must prosecute your rule with firm determination and relentless
purpose.’

Imrik was taken aback by Elodhir’s sudden change of heart. He was not
sure what game was being played by Elodhir, and was certain he did not
like it. For a moment, he preferred the other prince’s opposition to his
support, but then realised this was immature.

‘That is all well and good, Elodhir, but against whom must we prosecute
it?’ asked Thyriol. As always, Thyriol’s words were quiet and
meaningful. As he carefully considered his next words, the mage ran thin
fingers through his copper-coloured hair. His deep green eyes fixed on
each of his fellows in turn. ‘We all know its root, yet there is not one
of us speaks its name. Nagarythe. There, I have said it and yet the
world turns.’

‘Tales and rumour are no basis for policy,’ replied Bel Shanaar.
‘Perhaps our guests bring tidings that will aid our discussions.’

The Phoenix King and princes looked at the new arrivals, who stood for a
moment with their mouths open, surprised to be so quickly drawn into
such a discussion. The guard captain, who had been named Carathril by
the announcement, cleared his throat and paused for a moment before
speaking.

‘I bear ill tidings, your majesty,’ Carathril said quietly. ‘I and my
companion have ridden hither with all haste to bring you the news that
Prince Aeltherin of Lothern is dead.’

The news did not bode well and Imrik scowled. A death amongst the ruling
princes was bound to cause even more delays.

‘It is our misfortune that the great prince fell from grace, your
majesty,’ continued Carathril. ‘I know not how, but Prince Aeltherin
became a member of the pleasure cults. For how long, we do not know. It
appears that for some time the prince was in league with the dark
priestesses of Atharti, and from his position misdirected our efforts to
uncover the plots of the cult. Only a chance happening, a name whispered
by a prisoner in her sleep, started us on a sinister path that led to
the doors of the prince’s manse itself.’

‘And how is it that Prince Aeltherin does not stand here to defend
himself against these accusations?’ asked Elodhir. ‘Why is he not in
your custody?’

‘He took his own life, highness,’ explained Carathril. ‘I endeavoured to
reason with him, implored the prince to put his case before this court,
but he was gripped with a madness and would not consent. I know not what
caused him to act in this way, and I would not dare to speculate.’

‘A ruling prince party to these covens of evil?’ muttered Thyriol,
turning to the Phoenix King. Imrik growled at the thought. Caledrian had
hinted at such treachery, but to hear it confirmed was grievous news to
the Caledorian. Immediately his thoughts went to the other members of
the court and which, if any, could be trusted.

‘Matters are even graver than we would have dared admit,’ said Thyriol.
‘When news of Aeltherin’s fall spreads, fear and suspicion will follow.’

‘As is the intent of the architects of this darkness, I have no doubt,’
said Bel Shanaar. ‘With the rulers of the realms no longer to be
trusted, to whom will our citizens turn? When they cannot trust those
with authority, the greater the dread upon the minds of our people, and
the more they will flock to the cults.’

‘And who shall we trust, if not our own?’ asked Imrik, giving voice to
the doubt in his mind, his eyes seeking signs of duplicity in the faces
of the others.

‘The defection of Prince Aeltherin casts a cloud over every prince,’
said Bel Shanaar with a sorrowful shake of his head. ‘If we are to lead
the people from the temptations of the cults, we must be united. Yet how
can we act together when the doubt remains that those in whom we confide
may well be working against our interests?’

‘To allow ourselves to be divided would bring about a terrible age of
anarchy,’ warned Thyriol, who had begun to pace back and forth beside
the king’s throne. ‘The rule of the realms is fragile still, and the
greatest of our leaders are beyond these shores in the colonies across
the ocean.’

‘The greatest of our leaders sits upon this throne,’ said Elodhir, his
eyes narrowing.

‘I spoke not of one individual,’ said Thyriol, raising a placating hand.
‘Yet I would wish it that Prince Malekith were here, if only to settle
the matter of his people in Nagarythe. In his absence we are reluctant
to prosecute investigations within his realm.’

‘Well, Malekith is not here, while we are,’ said Bel Shanaar sharply. He
paused for a moment, passing a trembling hand across his forehead. ‘It
matters not. Thyriol, what is the counsel of the mages of Saphery?’

The mage-prince ceased his pacing and turned on his heel to face the
Phoenix King. He folded his arms, which disappeared within the sleeves
of his voluminous robe, and pursed his lips in thought.

‘You were correct to speak of dark magic, your majesty,’ Thyriol said
quietly. ‘Our divinations sense a growing weight of evil energy
gathering in the vortex. It pools within the Annulii Mountains, drawn
here by the practices of the cults. Sacrifice of an unnatural kind is
feeding the ill winds. Whether it is the purpose of the cults or simply
an unintended result of their ceremonies, we cannot say. This magic is
powerful but dangerous, and no mage will wield it.’

‘There is no means by which this dark magic cannot be spent safely?’
asked Imrik. He thought of the sacrifice of his grandfather, trapped
forever in the eye of the vortex so that such dark magic would not
pollute the world.

‘The vortex dissipates some of its power, and would cleanse the winds in
due course were the dark magic not fuelled further,’ explained Thyriol.
‘Unfortunately, there is nothing we can do to hasten this, other than to
stop the cults practising their sorcery.’

‘And so we return again to our main question,’ sighed Bel Shanaar. ‘How
might we rid ourselves of these cults?’

‘Firm action,’ growled Imrik. ‘Muster the princes; send out the call to
arms. Sweep away this infestation with blade and bow.’

‘What you suggest threatens civil war,’ Thyriol cautioned.

‘To stand idle threatens equal destruction,’ said Elodhir.

‘And would you lead this army, Imrik?’ Bel Shanaar asked, turning in his
throne to stare intently at the Caledorian prince.

‘I would not,’ Imrik replied sharply. ‘Caledor yet remains free of this
taint, and I seek to maintain the peace that we have.’

‘Saphery has no generals of renown,’ said Thyriol with a shrug. ‘I think
that you will find the other realms reluctant to risk open war.’

‘Then who shall lead the hunt?’ pleaded Elodhir, his exasperation clear
in his voice.

‘Captain Carathril,’ said Bel Shanaar. Carathril jolted in surprise.

‘How might I be of service, your majesty?’ Carathril asked.

‘I dispense with your duties to the Guard of Lothern,’ said Bel Shanaar,
standing up. ‘You are loyal and trustworthy, devoted to our people and
the continuance of peace and just rule. From this moment, I appoint you
as my herald, the mouth of the Phoenix King. You will take word to the
princes of the fourteen realms. I will ask if there is one amongst them
who is willing to prosecute the destruction of these intolerable cults.
This peril that besets us is no less than the division of our people and
the destruction of our civilisation. We must stand strong, and proud,
and drive out these faithless practitioners of deceit. The gratitude of
our lands and this office will be heaped upon the prince that delivers
us from this darkness.’

Imrik saw Thyrinor’s brow raised at this unprecedented declaration.

‘Your change of heart is welcome,’ said Finudel. ‘What has caused it to
be altered?’

‘A prince is dead,’ said Bel Shanaar. ‘There can be no path that is not
shadowed with darkness from this time on. The path will grow longer if
we wait, and Imrik is correct. Matters are reaching a head, and who can
say what fresh turmoil in Nagarythe might spread into the other
kingdoms. We must act swiftly lest more become lost in the darkness. We
cannot give our enemies the winter to move against us.’

‘Yet you do not have a general,’ said Thyriol.

All eyes turned to Imrik.

‘No,’ said the Caledorian. ‘There are others who have waged war in the
colonies, and even a few princes who fought beside Aenarion. They will
be capable of leading your army.’

Not wishing to discuss the matter further, Imrik strode from the hall,
content that he had achieved his goal. Thyrinor hurried after him and
caught up just as the doors were closed behind them.

‘This is a great opportunity for Caledor,’ said his cousin. ‘Be
sensible, Imrik. You know that the princes will choose a general from
amongst their number, and there will be great prestige attached to the
position. Other ranks of importance will be filled, and the esteem of
that kingdom will grow further. Bel Shanaar is nearing the end of his
natural span, and there are princes that already position themselves to
claim the Phoenix Throne.’

‘What has that to do with me?’ said Imrik.

‘Imagine what Caledor could achieve if Caledrian was to become the next
Phoenix King?’

Imrik stopped in his stride and turned on Thyrinor.

‘And that is your only thought?’ he snapped. ‘Or perhaps it is your own
prestige that occupies your plans? Caledor does not need the Phoenix
Crown to be the greatest of the kingdoms.’

‘Your accusations are harsh, cousin,’ declared Thyrinor, though his
embarrassed countenance betrayed his guilt. ‘The empowerment of Caledor
is to the benefit of all our princes, you included.’

‘I want nothing more than I have,’ said Imrik, resuming his long stride
along the corridor. ‘Had I desired more glory, I would put myself
forward as Bel Shanaar’s general.’

‘You are being selfish, to rob your brothers of this opportunity,’ said
Thyrinor.

‘Yes, I am,’ replied Imrik. ‘Since my coming of age I have done all that
has been asked of me without complaint. I have spent most of my life
earning riches and glory for Caledor. Now I wish to have the time to see
my son grow and learn, and perhaps even give him a brother or sister.’

Exasperated, Thyrinor turned away, leaving Imrik to depart the palaces
alone. Imrik crossed the plaza outside the palaces to the house that had
been set aside for the Caledorians. The chief of the servants,
Lathinorian, met him as he stepped over the threshold.

‘A messenger from Prince Caledrian arrived,’ said Lathinorian. ‘He
awaits you in the second chamber.’

‘I have no need to send a message,’ said Imrik. ‘Send him back to
Caledrian with the news that we have been successful. I shall convey the
rest myself when I return.’

‘We are leaving soon, prince?’ said Lathinorian. ‘Shall we begin
preparations for our departure?’

‘We leave tomorrow,’ said Imrik. ‘I am tired of Tor Anroc.’

With that, Imrik headed upstairs to his bedchambers, and left
instruction that he was not to be disturbed.

Nothing broke Imrik’s thoughts; he heard no sound save the wind
whistling across the mountains. He looked out of the window and watched
Anatheria with Tythanir; the boy was holding a wooden sword and shield
and under the instruction of Celebrith making strikes at a small straw
dummy set up in the middle of the lawn. The boy had insisted he be
allowed to train with a sword. Anatheria had worried her son had been
caught up in the dark talk of cults and war that had filled the palace
corridors of late, but Imrik had been in no mood to deny his son what he
wanted.

The prince knew the peace of the scene was an oddity. Tor Caled had
hosted heralds from one kingdom or another for a considerable time; many
of them coming to entreat Caledrian or one of his princes to take up the
office of the Phoenix King’s general. All had been declined. Caledrian
had no more desire than Imrik to leave his kingdom during these troubled
times, and had forbidden any other prince of the realm from answering
the call. He was insistent, with Imrik’s support, that Caledor was not
entangled in the politics of this new army. When a suitable candidate
was appointed, the kingdom would send such warriors as they could spare
to fight under another elf.

Thyrinor and Dorien had argued differently, and with some cause. They
had claimed it was foolish to allow the other kingdoms to choose a
general without Caledor having a say in the matter. If Caledorian
warriors were to fight, their princes should know who they would follow.
Caledrian had asked if Imrik would return to Tor Anroc to take part in
the selection debates, but Imrik had flatly refused.

Having returned once and been sent away again, Imrik was determined that
nothing would disrupt his time with his family. His relationship with
Anatheria had improved significantly, and Tythanir was growing fond of
his father. Imrik was not about to risk these developments by abandoning
them again, even if only for a little while.

Entertained by his son’s antics, Imrik barely heard the door opening
behind him, guessing it to be a servant. It was with surprise that he
turned at the sound of his older brother’s voice.

‘Imrik, I must speak with you,’ said Caledrian.

Caledor’s ruler was grim of mood, and Imrik could tell from his
brother’s expression that he was not anxious to have this conversation.

‘What is it?’ said Imrik. ‘You could have sent for me.’

‘This is not a discussion between ruler and prince, but between
brothers,’ said Caledrian, sitting on a couch and looking past Imrik,
out of the window. ‘I have received Carathril, the Phoenix King’s
herald. The princes are finally gathering at Tor Anroc to choose a
general. Not only that, rumour spreads, that there is outright war in
Nagarythe, between Morathi and others who would see her reign ended.’

‘Grave news, but to be expected,’ said Imrik, turning his back to the
window to rest against the sill. ‘What of it?’

‘I want you to go to Tor Anroc.’ Caledrian looked away as he said it,
casting his eyes downwards.

‘No,’ said Imrik. ‘Go yourself, or send Dorien or Thyrinor.’

‘I cannot,’ said Caledrian. ‘Dorien will undo all progress made with his
rashness and Thyrinor is too willing to accommodate Bel Shanaar. It must
be you.’

‘Why can you not go? The other ruling princes will expect it.’

‘And they will seek to settle past disagreements,’ said Caledrian. ‘I
have not protected Caledor’s prosperity by endearing myself to my fellow
rulers. My presence would be as disruptive as Dorien’s.’

‘You said you come as brother, not lord,’ said Imrik. ‘This sounds like
a command.’

‘It is not,’ said Caledrian. ‘I will not force you to go.’

‘Nor could you,’ said Imrik.

‘This will not be like last time,’ promised Caledrian. ‘Bel Shanaar is
on the brink of brokering an agreement between the kingdoms to deal with
Nagarythe. This is far more than just a campaign against the cults. The
Phoenix King wants to persuade the others to unite and force Nagarythe
into negotiation. If Caledor is not present, Bel Shanaar believes the
others will baulk at the prospect.’

‘What happened to your vow not to interfere in the other kingdoms?’ said
Imrik. ‘Now you speak of invasion.’

‘Not a prospect I desire, but one that is forced upon us,’ said
Caledrian. He crossed the room and laid a hand on Imrik’s arm. ‘With the
revelation of Aeltherin’s treachery, it has the other princes
distrusting each other more than ever. However, none doubt the integrity
of Caledor and her princes. They know that we would never fall under the
influence of Nagarythe. More than that, it is you that commands their
respect, even if few are willing to admit it. Brother, we are on the
brink of war and I need your help. Your presence will reassure our
allies and cow those who would seek to oppose action.’

Imrik pulled away his arm and stared out of the window, watching as
Tythanir made a clumsy hack at the dummy, Celebrith helping to guide his
blow.

‘What manner of world will your son see?’ Caledrian said behind him.
‘Our grandfather gave his life to protect us from the daemons. Our
father put his trust in Bel Shanaar, and sacrificed himself for the
prosperity of this kingdom. What I ask is not so great a price; just a
little of your time.’

The mention of Imrik’s forefathers rankled him, but he could not deny
what Caledrian said. What reason could he give to refuse? All sounded as
vain excuses; in truth they were and Imrik despised himself for clinging
to them. Yet the simple fact remained that he did not wish to be
Caledor’s ambassador, and had even less inclination to get involved with
a war against the Naggarothi.

Confrontation was inevitable. Even if Bel Shanaar lacked the courage to
act directly against Nagarythe, the purge of the cults would be a blow
to Naggarothi esteem. Even if only half of the rumours concerning the
strife in Nagarythe were true, it was still far from a stable kingdom.

As he watched Tythanir pretending to be a warrior, Imrik felt a moment
of disgust. Of course he wanted his son to grow up skilled with sword
and lance and bow; but what right did Imrik have to make that choice for
him? There was a good chance that Bel Shanaar would pull back from his
utter commitment to eradicate the cults and bring the Naggarothi to
heel. Fifty years had passed since Malekith had abandoned his own
people; anything could happen in the next fifty if nothing changed.

‘I’ll go,’ said Imrik, his knuckles white as he gripped the window sill.
‘Tonight. No delay will make the parting any easier.’

‘I love you, brother, and would not ask of this of any other,’ said
Caledrian, placing his hand on Imrik’s shoulder. ‘Ensure that Bel
Shanaar will see through this campaign to the end, and help the other
princes choose a good general. When that is done, I will ask no more of
you.’

There was no doubting Caledrian’s honest intent, but Imrik knew that
such a promise would never be kept. A war was about to be waged on
Ulthuan and until it was concluded, there would be no peace for Imrik or
any other prince.

The atmosphere of Tor Anroc was even more fevered than during Imrik’s
last visit. He had left behind Dorien and Thyrinor, wanting no
distractions. They had complained bitterly, as Imrik had expected, until
he had made it clear he would consider their presence an irritation and
a hindrance. Dorien was slightly mollified by Imrik’s request that he
stay as guardian to Anatheria and Tythanir; as yet he had no family to
care for. Thyrinor had been even more stubborn, and only when Caledrian
had commanded his cousin to stay in Tor Caled had the matter been
settled.

Much had already been decided before Imrik’s arrival, for which he was
grateful. Having determined to prosecute a campaign against the
cultists, it appeared that Bel Shanaar was fully committed, despite
Imrik and Caledrian’s misgivings on this point.

Several princes had already announced which of their noble houses would
bring their warriors to the effort, though Imrik had no such promises
from his brother. If all went well, the princes of Caledor would not be
required; it had been long years since the dragons of Caledor had fought
upon Ulthuan’s soil and all in the kingdom desired that such a thing
remained a memory. The deployment of such force was not only impractical
in a campaign against scattered, small cults, it would incense the
Naggarothi without question and force their hand.

So Imrik spent his time in the hall of Bel Shanaar and listened as noble
after noble and prince after prince staked their warriors to the cause
and their claim to the generalship. Most were given short shrift by the
Phoenix King and princes; untested leaders who had not seen battle. It
was a problem for all of the kingdoms; their most warlike folk and most
accomplished commanders had long quit these shores for a more
adventurous life building and guarding the colonies.

On the second day after his arrival, Finudel and Athielle came to the
court and pledged the support of Ellyrion. Thyriol made oaths on behalf
of Saphery, and volunteered his own magical prowess to the cause. From
Yvresse and Chrace and Cothique princes offered themselves in response
to Bel Shanaar’s call.

Yet for all the martial talk and posturing, two questions remained: who
would lead the army, and where would it be sent? There seemed to be an
ongoing struggle between the princes, unspoken but no less tenacious
than any battle with armies. Even within the camps of the different
kingdoms there was division: some who committed troops wanted to be the
first to benefit, while others saw gain in the upheaval falling
elsewhere first.

Again and again Imrik turned away those that would see him raised up as
the Phoenix King’s general. The idea was proposed again by Finudel, two
days after he had arrived.

‘There is none of us so well equipped for this honour as you,’ said the
Ellyrian prince, when the council had gathered in Bel Shanaar’s hall.
‘Save perhaps for the efforts of Malekith, none has achieved greater
deeds of arms in recent history.’

‘That makes it somebody else’s turn,’ replied Imrik.

There was some laughter at this, but Imrik’s scowl showed he had
intended no joke and silenced them.

‘We could bring back Aerenthis, perhaps?’ suggested Thyriol. ‘As warden
of Athel Maraya he is experienced in war.’

‘He has already declined,’ said Bel Shanaar with a long sigh. ‘As have
Litheriun, Menathuis, Orlandril and Cathellion.’

‘Then if no other will take this burden, I shall do it,’ said Elodhir.

‘A noble offer, but one I cannot accept,’ said the Phoenix King. ‘I have
told you before that the general cannot be of Tiranoc. If this army is
to fight under my authority, it must be led by a prince of another
kingdom, so that no accusation can be levelled that I favour my own
kingdom above any other.’

‘There must be some way to resolve this,’ said Finudel. ‘In Ellyrion,
twenty thousand cavalry and ten thousand spears await the command of a
general. Who is to lead them?’

‘It matters not if the horsemasters of Ellyrion stand ready to ride
forth,’ said Prince Bathinair of Yvresse. ‘Who are they to ride forth
against, my dear Finudel? You can hardly lead a cavalry charge through
every village and town in Ulthuan.’

‘Perhaps you seek to upset the harmony between the realms for your own
ends,’ added Caladryan, another of Yvresse’s nobility. ‘It is not secret
that of late the fortunes of Ellyrion have waned. War suits those with
little to lose, and it costs those who have the means. Our endeavours
across the oceans bring us wealth and goods from the colonies; perhaps
Ellyrion is jealous of that.’

Finudel opened his mouth to speak, his anger etched in creases across
his brow, but Athielle quickly laid a hand on her brother’s arm to still
him.

‘It is true that we have perhaps not prospered as much as some,’ the
Ellyrian princess said quietly. ‘In part that is because we of the Inner
Kingdoms must pay the taxes of Lothern to pass our fleets into the Great
Ocean. If not for those taxes, I suspect that the Outer Kingdoms would
perhaps have less of a monopoly of trade.’

‘We cannot be held to account for the quirks of geography,’ sneered
Prince Langarel, one of Haradrin’s kin from Lothern. ‘The sea gates must
be maintained, and our war fleet stands ever ready for the benefit of
all. It is fitting, then, that all should contribute to the cost of
maintaining these defences.’

‘And against whom do you defend us?’ growled Finudel. ‘Men? Hut-
dwelling savages who can barely cross a river, and an ocean divides us
from them. The dwarfs? They are content to dig in the mountains and sit
in their caves. The slaves of the Old Ones? Their cities lie in ruins,
their civilisation swallowed by the hot jungles. Your fleet is not
required, a token of the hubris of Lothern kept gilded by the labours of
the other realms.’

‘Must every old slight and rankle be dredged up before me every day?’
demanded Bel Shanaar, his calm voice cutting sharply through the raised
voices of the princes. ‘There is nothing to be gained from this
bickering, and everything to be lost. While we argue over the spoils of
our growing colonies, our cities here at hand are being devoured by
decadence and forbidden pursuits. Would you have us abandon our roots
and settle in the newly grown branches of our realm? The world has
riches enough for us all, if we could set aside these incessant
arguments.’

‘The power of the cults grows, that much is clear,’ said Thyriol, from
where he sat upon one of the ring of innermost benches surrounding the
hall. All turned to the mage in expectation.

‘The vortex holds the winds of magic in check for the moment, but dark
magic is gathering in the mountains. Strange creatures have been seen in
the highest peaks, unnatural things spawned from the power of Chaos. Not
all things of darkness were purged by the blade of Aenarion and the
vortex of Caledor. Hybrid monsters of flesh, mutant and depraved, dwell
still in the wilderness. The dark magic feeds them, emboldens them,
makes them stronger and cannier. Even now, the passes become ever more
dangerous to travel. In the winter when the hunters and soldiers cannot
keep these growing numbers of beasts at bay, what then? Will we have
manticores and hydras descend into the lowlands to attack farms and
destroy villages? If we allow the cults to grow unchecked, perhaps even
the vortex itself will fail and once more plunge the world into an age
of darkness and daemons. Is there one here with the will to prevent
that?’

The assembled princes stood in silence, eyeing each other, avoiding the
gaze of the Phoenix King. Imrik felt the weight of expectation upon his
shoulders. He had known this moment would come and done everything he
could to avoid it.

He closed his eyes, picturing his son at play, hardening himself to
another duty thrust upon him. He opened his mouth to answer.

‘There is one perhaps that has the will,’ a voice called out, echoing
along the audience chamber from the doorway. Its timbre was firm and
deep, filled with authority.

A ripple of gasps and whispers spread through the court as Imrik opened
his eyes to see a newcomer striding purposefully across the lacquered
floor, the fall of his boots sounding like the thunder of war drums. He
was dressed in a long skirt of golden mail and his chest was covered
with a gold breastplate etched with the design of a dragon, coiled and
ready to attack. He wore a cloak of shadow black across his shoulders,
held with a clasp adorned with a black gem set into a golden rose. Under
one arm he carried a tall war helm, fixed with a strange circlet of dark
grey metal that had jutting, thorn-like spines. A complex headband of
golden threads swept back raven hair that fell about his shoulders in
twisted plaits tied with rings of rune-etched bone. His eyes were
piercing, dark, as he stared at the nervous princes and courtiers. He
radiated power, his energy and vigour surrounding him as surely as light
glows from a lantern.

The princes parted before the newcomer like waves before a ship’s prow,
treading and stumbling upon robes and cloaks in their eagerness to back
away. A few bowed stiffly or nodded heads in unthinking deference as he
swept past to stand in front of the Phoenix King, his left hand, gloved
in supple black leather, resting on the silver pommel of a sword hanging
in an ebon scabbard at his waist.

Imrik felt relief and anger war within him at the sight of the newly
arrived prince; relief that another was willing to take up the mantle of
leadership, anger that he had not done so before.

‘Prince Malekith,’ said Bel Shanaar evenly, stroking his bottom lip with
a slender finger. ‘Had I known of your coming I would have arranged
suitable welcome.’

‘Such ceremony is unnecessary, your majesty,’ replied Malekith, his tone
of voice warm, his manner as smooth as velvet. ‘I thought it prudent to
arrive unannounced, lest our enemies be warned of my return.’

‘Our enemies?’ said Bel Shanaar, turning a hawkish look upon the prince.

‘Even across the oceans, as I fought against vile beasts and brutal
orcs, I heard of the woes that beset our home,’ Malekith explained. He
paused and turned to face the princes and their counsellors. ‘Alongside
the dwarfs, beside their kings, I and my companions fought to keep our
new lands safe. Friends I had that gave their lives protecting the
colonies, and I would not have their deaths be in vain; that our cities
and our island here would fall to ruin even as we raise sparkling towers
and mighty fortresses across the length and breadth of the world.’

‘And so you have returned to us in our hour of need, Malekith?’ said
Imrik, stepping in front of Malekith with his arms crossed. The
Naggarothi prince’s overly dramatic entrance summed up everything Imrik
believed about Aenarion’s son.

‘You must also have heard that which vexes us most,’ said Thyriol
softly, standing up and pacing towards the prince of Nagarythe, stepping
between Malekith and Imrik. ‘We would wish to prosecute our war against
these insidious evils across all of Ulthuan. All of Ulthuan.’

‘That is why I have returned,’ replied Malekith, meeting the mage’s keen
gaze with his own piercing stare. ‘Nagarythe is gripped by this torment
no less than other lands; more I have heard on occasion. We are one
island, one realm under the rule of the Phoenix King, and Nagarythe will
not be party to insurrection, nor shall we tolerate black magics and
forbidden rituals.’

‘You are our greatest general, our most sound strategist, Prince
Malekith,’ said Finudel, his voice hesitant with hope. Imrik bit back a
retort at this sudden change of allegiance. ‘If it pleases all present,
would you take up the banner of the Phoenix King and lead the fight
against these miserable wretches?’

‘In you runs the noblest blood of all princes,’ gushed Bathinair, his
tone sickly in the extreme. Imrik shook his head in disgust, unseen by
the others, for all eyes were on Malekith. ‘As you fought the darkness
alongside your father, you could again bring the light back to Ulthuan!’

‘Eataine would stand by you,’ promised Haradrin with a clenched fist
held to his chest.

Imrik stepped away, distancing himself from the others as a chorus of
pleading and thanks bubbled up from the assembled nobles. They fell
silent the moment Malekith raised a hand to still them. The Naggarothi
prince turned his head and looked at Bel Shanaar, saying nothing. The
Phoenix King sat in thought, his lips pursed, steepling his slender
fingers beneath his chin. Bel Shanaar then looked at Imrik’s stern
expression, an eyebrow raised in question upon the Phoenix King’s face.

‘If it is the will of the Phoenix King and this court, then Caledor will
not oppose Malekith,’ Imrik said slowly, before turning away and
stalking from the room.

It was with a bitter heart that Imrik arrived in Tor Caled with news of
Malekith’s return. So fortunate was the timing, he suspected the
Naggarothi prince to be involved in the rise of the cults. For Imrik,
events now seemed too neat to be coincidence. The affair had the stench
of artifice about it; created and managed for the further aggrandisement
of Malekith.

He said as much to Caledrian, though his brother confessed some measure
of relief that Malekith would restore order to Nagarythe. The ruler of
Caledor called together the most powerful nobles of the kingdom to
discuss his response to the development.

‘We have no need to get involved,’ Imrik told the council. ‘Malekith has
taken the duty upon himself. Let him stamp his rule again upon his
rebellious people.’

‘There is a course of reason that suggests we should not let Malekith
operate without counter,’ said Thyrinor. ‘With the mandate of Bel
Shanaar and the blessings of the other kingdoms, he might turn such
power to mischief. If Caledor had representation in the army, a force to
match Malekith’s veterans, balance will be maintained.’

‘A wise course, but one that will founder,’ said Caledrian.

‘How so?’ replied Thyrinor.

‘Who here will fight for Malekith?’ Caledrian addressed the assembled
princes and nobles.

‘I will not,’ said Imrik; a sentiment echoed by the others.

‘I will raise no blade beneath a Naggarothi banner,’ said Dorien. ‘It is
an insult to the memory of the Dragontamer to fight with the outcasts of
the north.’

Caledrian smiled grimly at Thyrinor, his point made.

‘Will you, cousin?’ said the ruling prince. Thyrinor glanced at the rest
of the council and shook his head. ‘Then the matter is settled. No house
of Caledor will join Bel Shanaar’s army, and the dragons will not fly
the skies of Ulthuan.’

‘A choice that is yours alone to make,’ said Hotek, who had remained
silent since the discussion had begun. ‘Yet Caledor should show some
support to the venture, lest our kingdom be accused of forgetting our
duties to the Phoenix King.’

‘You have a suggestion, Hotek?’ said Caledrian.

‘Make a gift of weapons to the cause,’ said the priest of Vaul. ‘As your
grandfather did for Aenarion, let the artifice of Vaul’s Anvil be your
offering to Bel Shanaar.’

Caledrian looked to the others and received nods of assent.

‘It shall be as you say,’ he said. ‘What must I do?’

‘You need do nothing,’ replied Hotek. ‘I shall see to the forging and
delivery on your behalf. It would be fitting if you would travel to the
shrine with me to make offering to the priests.’

‘Of course,’ said Caledrian. ‘Whatever you desire shall be yours.’

‘For Vaul,’ Hotek said pointedly.

‘Yes, for Vaul,’ Caledrian swiftly corrected himself.

Though the times that followed were anxious, the path chosen by the
princes of Caledor seemed to be wisest. At first troubling news reached
them from the north. Malekith’s first attempt to restore his rule in
Nagarythe ended in failure. This Caledrian and Imrik and the other
princes heard from Carathril the herald, who had ridden alongside
Malekith on the ill-fated venture.

Though this setback caused some consternation in Caledor, the noble and
the wise of that kingdom again decided not to intercede in the war. The
first weapons from Vaul’s Anvil were finished, six rune-enchanted
swords, and were delivered with due ceremony to Bel Shanaar. The gift
was accepted graciously, though the Phoenix King was saddened that the
dragon princes would not lend their might to the battle.

Though Malekith’s first foray into Nagarythe had nearly ended in
disaster, much had been learnt of the enemy. Morathi was indeed the
chief architect of the cults, and had usurped her son to take control of
Nagarythe. Strengthened by the confirmation of this belief, the other
princes doubled their efforts to rouse the cults from their cities and
towns, declaring them outlaw. They sent more troops to Malekith as he
prepared for a fresh offensive in the spring.

During the bleak winter days, Imrik was able to forget the troubles of
the north and spend much time with Tythanir. Unlike his brothers and the
other princes, he cared nothing for news of Malekith’s affairs,
believing his part in the unfolding war to have been settled.

One day he took his son into the mountains, onto the peaks above Tor
Caled. He showed him the view of the city and told tales of the city’s
founding by Tythanir’s great-grandfather.

‘Our blood is in these rocks,’ said Imrik, stamping a foot on the
frosted ground. ‘Beneath it is the fire of the mountains and the caves
of the dragons. From the mines in these peaks was brought forth the
first ithilmar. Caledor Dragontamer took this wondrous metal to the
smiths of Vaul and bade them to forge a blade and a shield and armour
for Aenarion.’

‘And the other weapons too?’ said the boy.

‘Later, yes,’ said Imrik. ‘The first were for Aenarion, who had passed
through the flame of Asuryan and been reborn. Next, Caledor gave
instruction for the making of his staff, wrought of gold and silver and
iron. For his son Menieth, my father, a sword was forged upon the smith
god’s anvil.’

Imrik drew his sword from its sheath. The blade glittered with inlaid
ithilmar, wrought into runes of sharpness and death. In Imrik’s hand it
weighed no more than a feather, and so keen was its edge, the lightly
falling snow could not settle upon it.

‘This is the wrathbringer, Lathrain,’ said Imrik. He crouched and took
Tythanir’s hand and wrapped it about the worn hilt, so that the two of
them held the sword together. ‘To your uncle, Caledrian, your
grandfather gave the kingdom. To your other uncle, Dorien, he gifted the
standard of Caledor. To me he gave this blade. He died with this weapon
in his hands. To wield it is the greatest honour in Caledor, but to bear
it is to carry the honour of the kingdom also.’

‘How many daemons did grandfather slay?’ asked Tythanir, eyes wide with
excitement.

‘Countless,’ replied Imrik.

‘What about orcs, and beastmen?’

‘Beyond number,’ said Imrik.

The child looked at the sword with amazement. He reached a finger
towards the blade but Imrik stopped him.

‘The edge need never be sharpened,’ said the prince. ‘Watch.’

Imrik took the sword in his fist and stood up. He pointed to an outcrop
of rock, dusted with snow. With an effortless swing, Lathrain sheared
off the top, sending it tumbling down the slope. Tythanir laughed at the
demonstration.

‘Cut something else!’ the boy cried out.

‘No,’ replied Imrik, sheathing the blade. ‘It is not a toy.’

Tythanir’s lip trembled and his eyes filled with tears.

‘I want to see you cut something else,’ he said, his voice breaking with
sadness.

‘One day it will be yours, and you will understand why it is no
plaything,’ Imrik said, pulling the boy close to embrace him.

‘But...’ the child started, but Imrik’s unflinching stare ended the
protestation as it began.

‘It is not right to argue,’ said Imrik. ‘Your mother is too indulgent.’

The boy scuffed his feet and pouted as they walked hand in hand back
down the path. It pulled at Imrik’s heart to see his son so crestfallen,
but he could think of nothing that would ease Tythanir’s childish
disappointment.

It reminded Imrik of the long days of his own youth, when his father had
been away. He had studied diligently, eager to show his father how much
he had learnt when Menieth infrequently returned. Great was his father’s
praise on those occasions, but always paired with a reminder to Imrik of
his duties as a prince of Caledor. Imrik remembered how his father would
tell him that though Caledrian was the heir, Imrik was the strongest of
the three brothers. When Caledrian ruled, Imrik would have to be the
protector of the family.

Such thoughts brought Imrik to his happiest memory and he smiled at the
recollection. He tugged at Tythanir’s hand to get the boy’s attention.
Tythanir looked up with a scowl, so deep it could have been Imrik’s own,
and the prince could not help but laugh. This only served to annoy
Tythanir further, but as he pulled to get away, Imrik gently dragged him
back.

‘Would you like to see the dragons?’ he asked, and received a wordless
shout of excitement in reply, all thoughts of magical swords gone from
the boy’s mind.
