
TEN 

The Call of Khaine

West they sailed, as Malekith had said they would. Across the Great
Ocean Indraugnir carried them, towards an uncharted world. Yet for all
their grand destiny, there was a more mundane duty to perform first.
Morathi was returning to Nagarythe, and would need to be taken to
Galthyr before Malekith’s host could continue westwards. Thirty days
after setting out from Athel Toralien, aided by a strong wind and
Indraugnir’s swift lines, they sighted the northern isles of Ulthuan.

Standing out from the tossing sea as pinnacles of rock, the northern
isles protected the coast of Nagarythe and Chrace from the heavy swells
and high waves that were stirred up by the north wind. In their midst
rose one island larger by far than all the others, and most westerly of
the archipelago: the Blighted Isle. It was here that the Shrine of
Khaine was located, a black table of rock from which protruded the
Widowmaker, the weapon of Khaine. Morathi knew it well, and she stood at
the port rail looking south as the Blighted Isle came into view through
the fog and crashing surf. Malekith joined her.

‘You think of my father,’ said the prince.

‘I do,’ replied Morathi. ‘It was more than a thousand years ago that he
flew here upon the real Indraugnir and breathed his last. He is but a
memory now, a myth to be told to children who will gasp in awe at his
feats, yet not wholly believe them. Even I only truly knew the legendary
Phoenix King, for we did not meet until after he had drawn the sword.
Even I knew of him only by reputation before that, and of the time
before his blessing by Asuryan there is nothing left but mystery. He is
gone from us now, he who was the greatest. There is nothing left of him
but you.’

Malekith stood there a while, the spray from the sea wetting his face as
he looked at the bleak, dark rocks.

‘There is something else that remains,’ he said finally.

‘What is that?’ asked his mother. ‘Something that remains of what?’

‘Of my father,’ said Malekith. ‘No one has been to the Blighted Isle
since Aenarion returned the sword. He and Indraugnir lie there to this
day. We should return their bodies to Anlec where they can lie in state,
and all the princes from all over the world will come to pay their
respects to the first of the Phoenix Kings. Even Bel Shanaar will have
to kneel before his remains and pay homage. All the princes will see
that, and when my father is interred in a mausoleum that will rival the
pyramid of Asuryan, with the bones of the largest dragon of Caledor
standing guard at its entrance, I shall take his armour. The princes
will remember Bel Shanaar bowing before that armour and the people will
see anew that I am Aenarion’s son; Aenarion reborn.’

‘Is this the sign for which you have been waiting?’ said Morathi. ‘Will
you now return with me to Nagarythe?’

‘Not without my father!’ said Malekith.

Calling for a boat and crew to be made ready, the prince then ordered
the ship’s master to bring Indraugnir to a stop. Malekith then changed
out of his fine robes and garbed himself in his golden armour, ready to
be taken over to the Blighted Isle. Morathi stood at the ship’s side as
the boat was lowered into the water. She smiled at her son as he leapt
up to the rail and seized hold of a rope. With a boyish grin of
excitement that Morathi had not seen for hundreds of years, the prince
of Nagarythe slid down the rope into the waiting boat.

The boat pushed away and was instantly carried from the ship’s side by
the surging waves. The fifteen elves of the boat crew erected the mast
quickly and turned the boat south, heading towards the south-east end of
the isle, the part most sheltered from the prevailing wind and waves.
Finding a small inlet, they made the boat secure but only Malekith leapt
ashore while the crew tried their best not to touch the cursed rock.

The Blighted Isle was devoid of all life; a bleak upthrust of crags that
was home to neither plant nor animal. No grasses clung to life in
crevasses. No beetles scuttled in the shade beneath toppled boulders. No
crabs dwelt in the dark pools of water by the sea’s edge. The wind
seemed to quieten as Malekith walked inland, picking his way through
scattered rocks and stones.

Having no particular course or goal, Malekith wandered for a long while,
absently making for what he deemed to be higher ground towards the west
of the island, so that he might spy the location of his father’s
remains. Pulling himself up a rocky ridge, the prince looked to the west
and saw that the afternoon had all but passed and the sun was not far
from the horizon. Though dismissive of the superstitions of the sailors,
Malekith had no desire to be out on the Blighted Isle in the dark, and
resolved to find his father’s remains and return to the boat before
nightfall.

With more purpose, Malekith continued his search, his eyes scanning the
valleys and hollows for a glimmer of metal or glint of bone. He found
nothing, and was despairing of success as the long twilight shadows
surrounded him. He was just beginning to think about returning to the
boat and resuming his search the next day when he suddenly paused,
caught by a strange instinct.

Though he heard no voice, nor saw no sign, Malekith felt a pull to the
south, as if he were being called. The lure was strong, like a singing
in his blood. With a last glance towards the setting sun, Malekith
followed the strange sensation and turned south, bounding over the rocks
at speed.

It was not long before Malekith came to a wide, flat expanse near to the
centre of the Blighted Isle. Here jagged black rocks veined with lines
of red thrust up into the ruddy skies like a circle of columns. The
ground within was as flat as glass and black as midnight. At the centre
there stood a block of red-veined rock and something only partly visible
shimmered above it. This was clearly the Shrine of Khaine, but as
Malekith looked around he could see no sign of his father’s resting
place nor any remains of Indraugnir. They must have come here, for
Aenarion had returned the Sword of Khaine to the very altar close to
which Malekith now stood.

Even as his thoughts touched upon the Godslayer, there came to
Malekith’s ears a distant noise: a faint screaming. Now that it had
attracted his attention, the prince looked at the altar of Khaine more
closely. As he did so, the sounds around him intensified. The screams of
agony were joined by howls of horror. The ring of metal on metal, of
fighting, echoed around the shrine. Malekith heard a thunderous heart
beating, and thought he saw knives carving wounds upon flesh and limbs
torn from bodies on the edge of his vision.

The red veins of the altar were not rock at all, but pulsed like
arteries, blood flowing from the altar stone in spurting rivers of gore.
He realised that the beating heart was his own, and it hammered in his
chest like a swordsmith working at an anvil.

A keening sound, like a note sung by a sword’s edge as it cuts the air,
rang in Malekith’s ears. It was not unpleasant, and he listened to it
for a while, drawn by its siren call to take step after step closer to
the altar. Finally, the prince of Nagarythe stood transfixed before that
bloody shrine just as his father Aenarion had been.

The thing embedded in the rock shimmered before Malekith’s eyes, a blur
of axe and sword and spear. Finally a single image emerged, of a bulbous
mace studded with gems. Malekith was confused, for this was no weapon,
but rather reminded him of the ornamental sceptres often carried by
other princes. It seemed very similar to the one borne by Bel Shanaar
when he had visited the colonies.

It was then that the meaning came to Malekith. All of Ulthuan would be
his weapon. Unlike his father, he needed neither sword nor spear to
destroy his foes. He would have the armies of an entire nation in his
grasp, and would wield them however he pleased. If he but took up
Khaine’s ­sceptre, there would be none that could oppose him. Like a
vision, the future unfolded before Malekith.

He would return to Ulthuan and go to Tor Anroc, and there cast down the
gates of the Phoenix King. He would offer up the body of Bel Shanaar to
Khaine and become undisputed ruler of the elves. He would reign for
eternity as the bloody right hand of the God of Murder. Death would
stalk in his shadow as he brought ruination to the empire of the dwarfs,
for such was the power of the elves that they need not share the world
with any other creature. Beastmen were put to the sword by their
thousands, and the carcasses of orcs and goblins spitted upon poles
lined the roads of his empire for hundreds of miles.

Malekith laughed as he saw the rude villages of humans being put to the
torch, their menfolk tossed onto pyres, their women with their hearts
ripped out, while babies had their heads dashed in upon the bloodied
rocks. Like an unstoppable tide, the elves would conquer all that lay
before them, until Malekith presided over an empire that covered the
entire globe and the fumes of the sacrificial fires blotted out the sun.
Malekith was carried forwards on a giant palanquin made from the bones
of his vanquished enemies, a river of blood pouring out before him.

‘No!’ cried Malekith, breaking his gaze from the sceptre and hurling
himself face first to the rocky ground.

He lay there for a long while, eyes screwed shut, his heart pounding,
his breathing ragged and heavy. Slowly he calmed himself, and opened an
eye. There seemed to be nothing amiss. There was no blood or fire. There
was nothing but silent rock and the hiss of the wind.

The last rays of the day bathed the shrine in orange, and Malekith
pushed himself to his feet and staggered from the circle, not daring to
look back at the altar. Knowing that his father would not be found,
Malekith gathered his senses as best he could and made for the boat,
never once looking back.

Even when he was back aboard Indraugnir he ordered the captain to sail
north with all speed until the Blighted Isle could no longer be seen.
None questioned this command, although Morathi regarded her son with
renewed curiosity as he strode to his cabin with unseemly haste.

Sailing further, they came upon the trade lanes of Ulthuan’s western
ports. Having found none of his father’s remains, Malekith refused to
return to Ulthuan and instead transferred his mother to one of the many
merchant ships returning to Ulthuan from the east. Despite her
protestations, Morathi was seen off Indraugnir with very little
ceremony, and the shocked master of the eastern trader found himself
gifted with a small fortune of gold and gems in return for taking the
seeress-queen to Galthyr.

By the time they had completed the short journey, during which Morathi
had complained constantly and her sorcerers had terrified more than a
few of the crew, the ship’s captain wished he had asked for more.
