
ELEVEN 

The Finding of the Circlet

For Malekith, his new freedom was as intoxicating as wine. He turned
Indraugnir north and headed for the lands of ice that girded the Realm
of Chaos. For several years Malekith and his crew explored the coastline
of the frozen northlands, foraying eastwards and westwards in attempts
to make charts for future visitors. It proved impossible, as the
proximity of the Chaos Wastes and the ever-shifting nature of the ice
itself changed the landscape with the passing of every season.

Likewise, any attempt to map the scattered human settlements proved
fruitless, for they were nomadic and followed the erratic migrations of
elk and other animals. Unlike the men who lived just north of the
colonies, these humans were both fierce and terrified. Their weapons and
armour were more advanced, forged of bronze, yet there was something
about the elves that filled them with horror and they would flee
whenever Malekith landed with a shore party.

There was good hunting on the outermost edges of the snowy plains: deer,
bears and birds aplenty. The elves fished also, but were forced to head
south in the coldest parts of the year, where they traded with other
ships for grain and wine. Though some of his followers grumbled about
the conditions, most were content, as was Malekith. For many this was
the opportunity for them to wrest control from the elements, to forge
something entirely new out of the unforgiving wilderness, just as they
had done in the forests east of Athel Toralien.

For all the enthusiasm of the Naggarothi, these lands were harsh and
resources were scarce. These were not the bountiful forests of the east,
but a bleak expanse of unrelenting snow and rock. That the crude humans
could survive here was testament that there was some worth in these
lands, but Malekith knew that there would be no glittering cities of
marble and alabaster. However, he was determined that the north would
yield to his will.

Many years after setting out from Athel Toralien, Malekith landed upon
an icy coast with the greater part of his followers. They carried their
food and tents upon sleds pulled by teams of sturdy horses and were
wrapped in coats of fur, and wore thick gloves and boots to protect them
from the freezing wind. A few souls were left aboard Indraugnir and told
to return to this place every fifty days to watch for the expedition’s
return. With that, Malekith and his warriors forged inland to see what
secrets the northern blizzards concealed.

In the Chaos Wastes, the Naggarothi found foes more fell than any they
had met before. The lands teemed with monstrous creatures warped by the
power of Chaos, and every time that the elves made camp the sentries
would be tested by some terrifying winged beast or mindless, shambling
thing.

The men of this realm were also far in advance of their cousins further
south. Whether from unknown allies or gifted dark knowledge by the Chaos
Gods, these humans had thick armour of leather and bronze, and hardened
weapons. They wielded swords and axes with surprising skill, and some
had shamanic powers and assailed the Naggarothi with spells drawn from
the dark magic that swirled in great strength throughout the north.

Many of the humans showed signs of Chaos corruption, and had bloated
muscles or bestial faces. No few carried ensorcelled weapons gifted to
them by the Chaos gods. Malekith slew a chieftain with bat-like wings
and scales instead of skin, who wielded a jagged sword that constantly
screamed in some arcane and dreadful language. Avanuir also took the
life of a tribal champion who had a snake’s body and was clad in armour
made of iron-hard bone.

Though Malekith never ventured into the Realm of Chaos itself, often his
expedition came close to its uncertain borders. The air shimmered with
magical aurorae and crackled with mystical energy. Vast and insane
landscapes hovered upon the edge of vision: nightmarish forests of
flesh, mountains of bones, rivers of blood and burning skies all lurked
beyond the invisible boundary. Even in the Chaos Wastes, the blasted
shadowlands surrounding the Realm of Chaos, the daemonic and the
unnatural held sway. For the first time in over a thousand years,
Malekith pitted his sword against the blades of the daemonic legions of
Chaos.

Malekith took ever greater risks, searching for some doom or myth that
never materialised. The prince drove his army further and further
westwards and northwards, seeking some sign that only he would
recognise.

In truth, Malekith was growing ever more despondent. Nearly fifteen
years had passed since he had left Athel Toralien and it seemed to the
prince that he was no closer to achieving the great glory he desired.
There was no army to overthrow, just scattered warbands of humans and
transient daemonic apparitions to banish. There were not boundless
riches to send back to Ulthuan, just the unending bleakness of snow,
rock and ice: an eternal grinding battle of attrition.

With his company much reduced by hardship and fighting, Malekith felt
his search growing ever more in vain. Northwards they pressed once more,
unto the very edge of the Realm of Chaos. Though he shared his despair
with no one else, the Naggarothi could sense Malekith’s growing
frustration and worried what desperate act he might be considering.

For days they were engulfed by a mighty tempest of wind and snow, and
though the Naggarothi struggled onwards eventually Malekith called them
to a halt to wait out the unnaturally savage storm.

During the night, the tents of the Naggarothi camp buffeted by blizzard,
Yeasir confronted his lord. The two were alone in Malekith’s pavilion,
wrapped in their heavy furs as they sat upon the cold ground around a
burning magical stone; the only fire that could be lit. Canvas cracked
and slapped around them, and the wind howled all about.

‘If you but let us know what it is you wish, then we would help you,’
said the Naggarothi captain.

‘What if I was to tell you that I would dare the Gate of Chaos itself?’
said Malekith. ‘Would you still follow me?’

Yeasir did not answer immediately but his look of horror was all the
reply Malekith needed.

‘So there is a boundary across which the Naggarothi dare not cross?’
said the prince.

‘I would counsel against it, your highness,’ said Yeasir, picking his
words carefully. ‘Yet, if after my protestations were heard you were
still intent upon such a course, I would follow you as would the
others.’

‘And what arguments would you make to dissuade me?’ asked Malekith.

‘That no living soul has ever entered the Realm of Chaos and returned,’
replied Yeasir.

‘Is that not the point of such an endeavour?’ said Malekith. ‘Were we to
venture into the heart of Chaos itself and return, would that not be a
­legend worth telling for a thousand years?’

‘If we return,’ cautioned Yeasir.

‘I did not know that the cold had cut so deeply into your veins,
Yeasir,’ said Malekith with scorn.

‘It is not fear that holds me back,’ said Yeasir sharply. ‘I would
gladly march against any foe, mortal or daemonic, but there is no valour
in matching a hundred spears against the might of the Dark Gods! If we
were to dare such a thing, we would be remembered as fools led by
stupidity and vanity, not glory. Worse still, we would not be remembered
at all, for if we should cross over to the worlds beyond and not return,
then our tale will end with nothing. “They were lost in the snows of the
north,” the chronicles would read, and our names would go unremembered.’

Malekith scowled, not out of anger but frustration. He knew that
Yeasir’s points were valid, but in his heart he yearned for something
more. The longer he remained in the north, the more chance that Bel
Shanaar would be succeeded by another prince before Malekith’s return.
The prince of Nagarythe could not bear the thought of slinking back to
Ulthuan after all this time, to spend his days living out the fading
glories of an age past.

‘I will make no decision now,’ Malekith declared. ‘The morning sun may
bring fresh counsel.’

And it did.

Before dawn, the storm abated and a calm settled upon the tundra. Yeasir
came to Malekith’s tent as the sun was breaking, much excited. Following
his captain, Malekith emerged from his pavilion to see what had stirred
the camp.

To the north, in the growing light of the day, could be seen distant
structures. Upon a snow-swept hill, outlandish buildings rose up from
the ice, carpeted with white but unmistakable nonetheless. Their exact
shape could not be discerned from this distance, but grey and black rock
hewn by hand rather than nature jutted at strange angles from drifts and
hills of snow. The early morning sunlight sparkled from icicles hanging
from strange balconies and glinted from odd-shaped domes. Malekith gave
the order for the company to break camp and make ready to march with all
speed.

What Malekith had taken to be a few miles turned out to be several
leagues, the distance deceptive in the otherwise featureless snow plain.
It took hours of marching before the Naggarothi came upon the outskirts
of the strange buildings. No outer wall guarded their border and they
seemed deserted. In design they were unlike anything the elves had seen
before; not of elven, dwarfish or human hand.

The buildings were made of solid stone, but appeared not have been
carved from the naked rock but fused seamlessly from some other stone.
The walls met at strange angles, and the empty doorways and windows
formed odd shapes of darkness, with no corner square. There were no
curves either, no rounded arches or elegantly pointed arcs. Some
buildings were low, so that their roofs were no higher than Malekith’s
head, while others had several storeys, each of which was a dozen feet
high or more.

To begin, the Naggarothi wandered the wide, uneven streets, up sweeping
terraces and lines of stairs that changed in height at every step. The
roads joined at irregular intervals, and met in uneven, star-shaped
plazas. Other than the cold stone there was nothing else, no wood nor
metal, and Malekith judged the settlement to be ancient indeed. After an
hour’s searching it was clear that the city was vast, larger than
anything Malekith had ever encountered.

Here on the edge of the Realm of Chaos, distances could be perversely
extended or contracted, and so it was within the city. Short pathways
seemed to widen as the elves approached, streets appeared to take longer
to walk along than the buildings around them would imply, while eerie
avenues that seemed to stretch for miles could be walked along in a
matter of moments.

Eventually Malekith and the others ventured inside one of the buildings.
It was a grand structure of five storeys, which widened unnaturally as
it soared towards the grey skies, its flat walls pricked with hundreds
of tiny, dark windows. The lower floor was open, with no internal walls,
and the only feature was a wide stairwell that led downwards; there
appeared to be no means to reach the upper levels.

Bringing out dwarf-made lanterns that glittered with silver fire, the
elves descended the steps. These brought them into a contorted network
of passages and rooms, and very quickly Malekith feared they would get
lost. He ordered a warrior to stand at each junction with a lamp held
aloft, so that no elf was ever out of sight from the route back. In this
way, they slowly explored the windowless catacomb. They found no sign of
the city’s builders, just blank stone devoid of carvings or colour.

After an hour of searching – far longer than Malekith would have
suspected by the size of the building above – they came upon another
stair. It rose steeply upwards and double-backed and criss-crossed
itself in a disturbing way. That it reached far higher than the ceiling
was indisputable, though its position, as far as Malekith could tell,
put it in the centre of the storey above where no stair had been seen.

Their breath carving clouds upon the cold air, Malekith and his warriors
mounted the steps, continuing to leave sentries at each twisted landing
so that no elf was out of sight of another. The elves scaled the
stairway in a surprisingly short time, and it opened out onto another
empty floor, with wide windows through which they could only see the
cloudy skies.

Walking to the nearest window, Malekith looked out and then stepped back
with a gasp. The stairwell had brought them up to a floor above where
they had entered the building, for down below he could see a few of his
warriors standing guard at the doorway where they had come in. The city
stretched out in every direction as far as he could see, going on and on
until it was lost in a grey haze.

Disorientated, Malekith closed his eyes and took a deep breath. Having
recovered himself a little, he leaned out of the glassless window,
avoiding looking towards the horizon, and hailed the Naggarothi some
sixty feet below. They looked up with startled shouts, and their voices
came back impossibly distant.

Disturbed, Malekith ordered the Naggarothi to leave, though it took
another hour for them to climb down the winding stairway and trace their
way back out of the labyrinthine catacomb. There was much distressed
murmuring by the Naggarothi, and Malekith’s usual confidence had been
eroded by the unnatural surroundings. Looking up into the sky, he could
see no sign of the sun and so only his internal awareness gave him any
sense of the passage of time.

He reckoned it to be mid-afternoon, and knew that in these northern
climes the sun would set early at this time of the year, barely passing
above the horizon for a few hours. Malekith declared that they would
leave the city before night fell and seek out its secrets with renewed
vigour the following day.

However, with no sun to guide them, none of the Naggarothi knew from
which direction they had entered the city. They retraced their steps as
best they could from the footprints in the snow, but these soon petered
out and could be found no more, though no snow had fallen since their
arrival as far as they were aware. Now even more unnerved, Malekith
called for the company to gather, and found that five of their number
were missing. None could recall where they had last been seen, and the
prince feared that they were lost in the city somewhere, perhaps
forever.

Sensing the unease in his warriors becoming panic, Malekith bid them to
stay where they were, somewhere amidst the criss-crossing arteries of
the city’s maze-like roads. Clearly the proximity of the Realm of Chaos
was addling their senses, and Malekith could not trust his own eyes.
Instead he turned to a deeper sense, of the magic that flowed across the
world from the Gate of Chaos.

Closing his eyes and blanking out all other sensation, the prince
entered a meditative trance he had learnt from Morathi in his youth.
Normally he needed no such concentration to harness the winds of magic,
but now he desired finesse and focus and so looked to the lessons of his
childhood to give him a centre upon which to concentrate.

Imagining himself as a small speck, a grain of dust upon the ground,
Malekith allowed his othersense to reach outwards just a small distance.
Magic swirled in all directions, without form or rhythm. Edging out his
sphere of awareness, he allowed his mind’s eye to encompass a greater
part of the city. Here he could detect a more regular stream of power;
an underlying flow that poured from one direction. Fixing that point in
his mind, Malekith opened his eyes.

Composed once more, Malekith could feel the gentle but persistent surge
of Chaos unconsciously, and knew in which direction north now lay.
Turning to the south, he ordered the Naggarothi to follow him.

They had walked for perhaps an hour when Malekith felt a different
current in the flow of magic. Something close at hand was causing an
eddy to form, much like the dispelling stone of the dwarfs. More
confident that he could lead his warriors from the city if necessary,
Malekith decided to make a detour and investigate this phenomenon. Now
that he was aligned with the winds of magic again, Malekith marched
unerringly between the grotesque buildings, guiding the company directly
to the source of the anomaly.

There was something about the building that disturbed Malekith even more
than the others. It was not as tall as some, but was very broad and rose
up like a five-levelled ziggurat, though each successive step was
slightly misaligned in comparison to the one beneath, so that the whole
structure seemed to have been twisted by a god’s hand in some
prehistoric time. There were archways all around its bottom floor,
though nothing could be seen of the upper floors. Though he could not
reason exactly why, the building brought Malekith to mind of a temple;
to what deity or power, he could not fathom.

Malekith commanded half of his warriors to form a perimeter around the
building, which stood alone just off-centre in a huge irregular
eight-sided plaza. The other half of the company, Malekith led through
one of the slanted archways. They followed the corridors, stairs and
tunnels within for some time, but ever their path led them outwards so
that they stood in rooms and galleries on the outer edge of each level.
Malekith felt magic bubbling around him, and could sense a ward upon the
inner walls keeping the magic at bay from somewhere within.

Eventually he found a spot where the magic churned violently, though
looking about Malekith could see no physical source for such a
disturbance. Holding up a hand to command his warriors to wait, he
walked to the point where several streams of energy collided with each
other. He stood on that exact spot, nauseated by the clashing magical
waves.

Looking around he could see a triangular door that could be seen from
nowhere else. He pointed and told Yeasir to follow his directions.
Confused but obedient, the captain stalked across the floor of the room,
following Malekith’s gestures. To Yeasir it seemed as if Malekith guided
him towards a solid wall and he hesitated, just a pace from the stone,
before the prince’s snarling voice bid him to walk forwards once more.
With a grimace, his eyes half-closed in expectation of thudding into the
wall, Yeasir took a step; he nearly fell over as he found himself atop a
strange angular stair, much like the one they had found in the first
building.

Through cunning artifice and magic, the stair was impossible to see, as
if the door to it stood slightly apart from the world. Once Yeasir had
stepped through, he had disappeared from sight, but he returned in
moments and waved for the others to follow him.

The stairs led down for a comparatively short stretch, though such
concepts as time and distance were becoming increasingly irrelevant in
this impossible city. They led into a chamber, utterly black but for the
glimmer of the elves’ lanterns. The air seemed to suck all the light
into itself, and even with the radiance from the lamps Malekith could
see barely ten paces ahead.

Stepping cautiously forwards, he found himself treading upon a tiled
floor, arranged in a seemingly haphazard mess of geometry yet every tile
still fitting perfectly in the insane mosaic. The tiles were as grey as
the stone of the rest of the city, but were slightly soft to tread upon,
like a thin carpet. Casting the light of his lantern to the right and
the left, Malekith could make out dim shapes rising in the gloom:
figures stood upon pedestals lining a wide concourse that led away from
the door. Malekith raised a hand to halt those following behind, and
turned left to inspect the statues more closely.

By the silvery light of the lamp, they looked to be made out of some
dull alloy, but as he came within a few paces Malekith could see more
clearly that they were skeletons of greying bone. They were not unlike
the bones of an elf, or for that matter a man, or dwarf; in proportion
they were short of torso and long of limb like an elf, but had the
thicker bones of a man, and were of a height little more than a dwarf.
Their faces were slender, with a mouth, two eyes and two nostrils that
were so disturbingly familiar yet not quite like any skull he had seen,
causing Malekith to pause a moment before continuing his inspection.

They were clad in black shrouds that were wrapped about the bodies and
shoulders in identical fashion, with hoods raised up on their skulls.
Every cadaver wore chains of dark beads, perhaps black pearls, which
hung limply from bony wrists and about throatless necks. Each held a
serrated, angular sword in its right hand and a triangular shield upon
its left arm, both free of any design that Malekith could discern.

The tiles stopped at the line of plinths, and beyond them the floor
seemed to be made of the same stone as the rest of the building.
Malekith could see nothing in the darkness, the lantern light reflected
off no edge or surface, and he had no idea whether there were any other
features or if the rest of the chamber was utterly empty.

Walking along the line of inanimate sentries, Malekith could not guess
at how far the two lines stretched, but sensed that their course
narrowed almost imperceptibly, bringing them together at some distant
point as yet out of sight.

Glancing back towards the others, Malekith had another surprise. Though
he was sure that he had walked no more than fifty paces, in as straight
a line as made no difference, the glimmer of his companions’ lanterns
was like distant starlight in the gloom, and quite some way off to his
left and higher up than his current position.

The prince called out for them to send a party to join him, and his
voice echoed off distant walls, bouncing and resounding within a space
he judged to be much vaster than the building in which it was supposedly
enclosed. With a shiver, Malekith waited for the others to reach him,
the light from their lanterns swiftly growing brighter with every
heartbeat as if they covered a dozen paces with every stride.

Yeasir was with them and he gazed wide-eyed at the skeletal parade. He
said nothing, but his look of concern was not lost on Malekith. With a
reassuring nod, the prince turned along the line once more and followed
the skeleton-flanked concourse. The pathway did indeed narrow gradually,
and led the Naggarothi to a great stepped plinth the summit of which lay
in the gloom beyond their lights. Ascending the first few steps and
walking around them, Malekith saw that five other lines of skeletons
joined the central feature at irregular angles. He rejoined his comrades
and ordered a handful of them to stand guard at the bottom of the steps,
while the others followed him up the steep dais.

It led onto a plateau, which was impossibly, maddeningly as wide as the
base of the steps below. Seven figures sat upon low square stools, more
opulent versions of the skeletons below with more dark pearls and
brooches of the same black material. Six sat facing outwards, each one
facing one of the lines upon the ground below as far as Malekith could
tell. They had no hoods but instead wore simple crowns consisting of a
narrow band about the skull with a black gem that reflected no light
upon their foreheads.

The seventh figure sat facing Malekith, though the prince suspected that
he would have faced the intruders regardless of which direction they had
approached from. His crown was much larger, of a silver-grey metal, with
curling, horn-like protrusions; the only organic shape they had seen
since entering the city.

‘Highness!’ snapped Yeasir, and Malekith turned, his hand on his sword
hilt. It was only then that he realised that his other hand had been
reaching out towards the skeletal king, to pluck the crown from his
skull. Malekith had no recollection of having crossed the dais, and
shook his head as if dazed by a blow.

‘We should touch nothing,’ said Yeasir. ‘This place is cursed, by the
gods, or worse.’

Malekith laughed and the noise seemed stifled and flat, with none of the
ringing echoes of his earlier shout.

‘I think this great king rules here no more,’ said Malekith. ‘This is my
sign, Yeasir. What greater statement about my destiny could I make?
Imagine returning to Ulthuan with such a crown upon my head, an artefact
of the time before.’

‘Before what?’ asked Yeasir.

‘Before everything!’ said Malekith. ‘Before Chaos, before the Everqueen,
before even the gods themselves. Can you not feel it, the great
antiquity that fills this place?’

‘I feel it,’ growled Yeasir. ‘There is ancient malice here, can you not
sense it? I say again, there is a curse upon this place.’

‘You were willing to follow me to the Gate of Chaos,’ Malekith reminded
his captain. ‘Would you rather we left this treasure here and continued
north?’

Yeasir’s muttered reply was inaudible, but Malekith took it to be his
captain’s acquiescence. Not that the prince needed the permission of
anyone to take whatever he wanted, from wherever he wanted. Magic had
guided him to this place and Malekith knew that there was purpose behind
it. Whether it was the gods or some other will that had led him here, it
was to stand before this prehistoric king and take his crown.

With a smile, Malekith lifted the circlet from the dead king’s skull; it
was as light as air and came away with no difficulty.

‘You have it, now let us leave,’ said Yeasir, fear making his voice
shrill.

‘Calm yourself,’ said Malekith. ‘Does it not make me kingly?’

With that, the prince of Nagarythe placed the circlet upon his head and
the world vanished.

Golden light blazed throughout the immense hall. It did not appear to
have a single source, but simply radiated out from all of the walls.
Yeasir blinked in the sudden brightness, trying to clear spots from his
eyes. As his vision returned, he saw more clearly where they were.

The chamber was vast, larger than any hall he had ever seen on Ulthuan
or in the realm of the dwarfs. The walls were impossibly distant, and as
Yeasir turned about to look around, he swore that their number increased
and reduced, so that at one moment he was standing in a great irregular
octagon, at others a triangular chamber.

Disorientated, he looked up and saw a vast ceiling stretching out to the
horizon, so immense that he could not see where it met the walls. Huge
angular stalactites jagged downwards at strange slants. The ceiling
itself was made up of immense plates and surfaces that formed bizarre
vertices, and perspective seemed to bend and contract depending on where
he looked. Tearing away his gaze from the maddening vista, Yeasir turned
his attention to his lord.

To Yeasir, it seemed as if Malekith had been frozen. He stood next to
the regal skeleton at the centre of the dais locked in his pose, the
crown upon his head, his fingers still touching the strange iron-like
headgear. Yeasir leapt forwards with a shout, fearing some bewitchment
had befallen his master. Another cry from one of the warriors distracted
him and he turned his head to see several of the Naggarothi pointing out
across the hall.

Following their fingers, Yeasir saw what he had feared ever since they
had entered the ancient hall: the skeletal figures stepping down from
their plinths and turning towards the central dais. They also glowed
with light, and stalked purposefully forwards, their shields and weapons
held ready. Yeasir cast a quick glance at the figures seated around them
and was relieved to see that not one of them stirred. Ignoring his
transfixed prince, Yeasir dashed to the opposite side of the platform
and saw that skeletal warriors were advancing from every direction.

‘Form up for defence!’ Yeasir commanded, and the Naggarothi came
together in a ring of spears and shields that encircled the top of the
high podium.

‘Prince!’ the captain cried out, crossing the dais and laying a hand on
his shoulder as if to wake him.

As soon as he touched Malekith, sparks of energy exploded across
Yeasir’s body and he was flung backwards across the dais, clattering and
rolling across the hard stone. His body was numb and his muscles jerked
and spasmed as magical energy coursed through him. Gritting his teeth,
he fought to control his juddering limbs but felt drained of all
strength. He lay there groaning, his arms and legs as heavy as lead, his
ears ringing, his vision hazy.

There were more alarmed shouts but Yeasir could not discern the words.
In momentary flashes of clarity he could see the Naggarothi archers
raising arrows to their bowstrings and loosing them out from the edge of
the dais, but he could not see if their shots had any effect. Moaning,
he managed to roll to his stomach, and the numbness began to dissipate,
replaced instead by gnawing pain in every joint and bone.

He tried to speak, but all he could do was clench his teeth and hiss, as
pain shot along the captain’s spine and exploded inside his brain.
Amongst the buzzing and squealing that filled his hearing, Yeasir caught
snatches of shouts and the dreadful clatter of thousands of bony feet
marching upon the stone. A panicked thought shot through his
pain-clouded mind: we are doomed.
