
two 

Lord of Murder

Though Hellebron gave only a vague account of her encounter with Morathi
– and assumed an outlook of indifference, if not antipathy, to the court
of Anlec despite her earlier enthusiasm – it was clear amongst the
society of Athel Toralien that she had been snubbed by the queen.
Nothing was mentioned directly to Hellebron, but she noticed the hidden
smirk in the eyes of others, and in casual asides that subtly demeaned
her credentials as a true princess.

Never one to back down from confrontation, Hellebron did not hide away
from the whispered accusations. She attended every gala and masque,
hosted parties in her father’s chambers and held her head high whenever
she was in public.

In private was another matter. When alone, disappointment flooded her
spirit. For all her determined thoughts after seeing Morathi, Hellebron
could see no means by which she could advance her status. She suffered
twofold already: by her location in the colonies and by her birth to an
administrator who was a prince in name but not blood.

It did not matter in Nagarythe that Athel Toralien was one of the
greatest cities of the colonies, and that it held the key to the future
of the Naggarothi people. There was ever a doubt about the city in the
hearts of Nagarythe-born elves, for it had been saved by the prince, and
was a conquered territory in the eyes of Naggarothi law. The princes and
commanders of Nagarythe were happy to wear the gems and gold that came
through the port, but in their eyes Athel Toralien was only marginally
Naggarothi, putting it slightly above the other kingdoms of Ulthuan, but
not by much of a margin.

So Hellebron suffered in secret, bearing the veiled insults and the
backhanded compliments with a smile whilst every night tears wet her
pillows and anguish kept sleep at bay.

Following Morathi’s grand visit, Athel Toralien changed. The queen had
brought with her many priests and priestesses from Nagarythe. Although
they were made less than welcome by Prince Malekith, who had little time
for the foibles of gods and goddesses, they flourished after his
departure into the wastes of the North.

The various sects became part of the social fabric of the city and
Hellebron participated like all the other high-born elves. The
popularity of one deity over another waxed and waned like fashions of
jewellery and styles of poems; for a season the elite of the city would
attend the sombre remembrances of the dead watched over by the priests
of Ereth Khial; for half a year the licentious dancing and erotic
displays in the temple of Atharti; and during the summers bands of
nobles rode forth on long hunts and sacrificed their kills to Anath
Raema.

The ceremonies of the sects became a regular part of the social
calendar, and Hellebron did her best to attend the most favoured events
and lavish her attention on the highly regarded holy leaders. Despite
her dedication, she was always at the periphery; never chosen to speak
at a sacrifice, never mentioned as a benefactor, never offered the
chance to be drawn into the greater secrets of the cults despite her
enthusiasm to learn more.

For five years Hellebron politicked and patronised, but her standing
never benefitted. Despair threatened again with the realisation that
religion did not promise the answers to her ambitions. The cult leaders
were narrow-minded, the priests and priestesses vying with each other
for greatest acceptance and acclaim. Divided, no single sect would
attract the sort of power needed to impress Morathi, not here in the
hinterlands.

One hot summer evening Hellebron sat staring out of the window. She
looked at the huge expanse of the Great Ocean and bitterly imagined the
great towers of Anlec on Ulthuan far to the west. As the sun set on the
golden waves, she felt that Nagarythe might as well be on another world
for all her chances of reaching it. For sure, her father would pay for a
ship and send her to Anlec, but Hellebron would not go there with
nothing to offer; even if her father’s riches were greater than those of
many ancient royal families, to turn up at the wharfs of Galthyr with no
reputation would put Hellebron in the same category as the daughter of a
farmer or merchant.

A knock on the door broke her contemplation. She swept back a few
rebellious locks of hair, affected a wistful pose and called for the
visitor to enter.

‘Evening greetings to you, sister,’ said Lirieth as she stepped inside,
shadowed by a tall captain wearing bright armour chased with sapphires
on the breastplate.

‘Greetings, sister,’ said Hellebron, standing. She inclined her head
politely towards the officer. ‘This must be Maenredil.’

‘It is my pleasure and honour to meet you, princess,’ said Maenredil.
His hair was jet-black, swept back over his shoulders with a band of
gold. His eyes were animated, gauging Hellebron swiftly before roaming
about the chamber, taking in every detail. ‘You are as beautiful as your
sister.’

Hellebron still felt a shiver of pleasure at being called a princess,
and she could see amusement in the eyes of the army captain. Her sister
had chosen her paramour wisely; Hellebron had sworn she would never
marry less than a prince.

‘I have something I want you to see,’ said Lirieth. ‘Maenredil has
somewhere to take us, something you have not seen before.’

‘That is a vague invitation, sister.’ Hellebron’s gaze slid over to
Maenredil. ‘If this is some form of Athartist orgy, I must decline.
Though there are many pleasures of the flesh to be enjoyed, I cannot
bring myself to do so in the company of my own sister.’

To his credit, Maenredil looked away, embarrassed. Lirieth did not seem
to notice.

‘No, it is nothing like that, sister. It is a warrior’s ceremony.’

‘I have no desire to watch soldiers marching back and forth,’ said
Hellebron.

‘It is so very different from that,’ said Lirieth with a giggle. ‘I do
not want to spoil the surprise, but please, come with us. What else
would you do tonight? Sit here, grudging the stars their prettiness and
the waves their melodious voices?’

Hellebron looked at the two of them, standing arm-in-arm just inside the
door. Maenredil’s playful look had returned.

‘I think you will find this evening enlightening and entertaining,’ said
the captain. ‘There have been very few ladies allowed to attend this
gathering, but those who have speak nothing but praise of it.’

‘Very well,’ Hellebron said, pretending an air of vague interest. In
truth, she was intrigued. She had not seen her sister so enamoured of
another elf since she had been a child, and if nothing else it would be
wise to spend some time with Maenredil in order to gain a better
understanding of a potential brother-in-law.

When Hellebron enquired what attire would be required for this event,
she was told they would be leaving the city. With the aid of Liannin,
she quickly picked out some riding clothes, braided her hair tight and
pulled on a pair of long boots. They were already riding along the east
road when the sun finally disappeared behind Athel Toralien. Maenredil
brought out a riding lamp and they followed its glow as he led them from
the main road, turning south towards the forests.

They rode on until the only light was Maenredil’s lamp and the swathe of
stars above. As the track wound beneath the eaves of the forest,
Hellebron could see glimmers of orange ahead: torchlight. Soon they
caught up with other elves, riding and walking to the south. Most wore
armour; a few were dressed in more courtly robes.

They came upon a wide clearing, lit by a single fire as high as the
branches. In the ruddy glare Hellebron could see hundreds of elves.
Smoke drifted between the trees and lingered under the branches like a
red mist. Hellebron could smell more than burning wood; a scent both
acrid and sweet that she could not place.

‘A dedication to Anath Raema?’ Hellebron sighed. ‘I have attended more
hunting sacrifices than I care to remember. Really, this is quite
disappointing, sister.’

Lirieth’s reply was a smile and a nod towards the pyre. Maenredil helped
Lirieth from her mount and did likewise for Hellebron. He hooked arms
with both of the sisters and led them to the edge of the clearing.
Closer to the fire, Hellebron thought she could recognise the strange
odour in the smoke: roasting boar. She looked for a carcass on the
flames but could see nothing. Squinting, she saw some bones amongst the
burning logs and now that she was in the clearing, she could see the
ground was dark, made of packed ash from many previous ceremonies.

They waited in silence for some time, until Hellebron was thoroughly
bored. A study of the other attendees provided little distraction;
almost all were soldiers of various ranks. Clad in their armour with
swords on their hips, they waited patiently, saying nothing.

‘When is something going to happen?’ whispered Hellebron. ‘I am going to
stink of smoke for the whole night.’

‘Hush,’ said Maenredil. His tone was mollifying rather than curt, but
Hellebron smarted nonetheless. She was a princess and should not be
addressed in such a way, especially by a simple captain.

Her protest died on her lips as the crowd parted to her right. An elf of
senior years – seven hundred, at least – paced slowly from the treeline.
He was naked except for a cloth of red wrapped about his waist. The
fabric looked strangely stiff until Hellebron realised that it was
matted with dried blood. The elf’s exposed chest was criss-crossed with
a tracery of fine scars, as were his arms. His white hair was wound into
wild braids, which splayed from his head like a hydra. In one hand he
held a long knife with a serrated edge, in the other a large,
golden-rimmed clay goblet.

Behind him came two lines of attendants, ten of them, wearing nothing
but red cloaks. Two were maidens, the rest were male. All of them were
painted with crimson runes; more blood, Hellebron guessed. Each of them
held a different implement: variously shaped blades, hooks, platters and
cups.

The high priest stopped just before the flames and turned to face the
gathered elves. Silhouetted against the fire, he raised his arms and
tilted his head back. Hellebron stepped back in shock as an otherworldly
screech emanated from the priest’s throat, unlike anything she had heard
before; part the wail of an injured animal, part the roar of a savage
predator.

The attendants added their voices to the long cry, each shrieking at a
different pitch, their screeching spreading out through the forest.
Several dozen elves in the crowd shouted also, wordless howls that made
Hellebron think of pain and hunger.

The priest’s hands dropped. He crossed his arms over his chest,
silencing the gathering.

‘Praise Khaine!’ His voice was as dry as tinder, but carried across the
clearing. ‘Let us give our thanks for victories past, and seek His
divine hand in our future conquests. Praise the Lord of Blood, the
Prince of Death, for delivering our enemies to our blades.

‘Many of you march forth to the south and east, where a horde of the
troublesome beast-creatures has gathered in the dark woods. Give your
praise tonight and bring Khaine’s curse on your foes tomorrow. Let them
know the red wrath of His attention and with His name upon your lips
strike down those who would despoil our lands. Let Khaine drink deep of
the offerings that we give Him this night, as we promise to sate His
hunger for flesh and slake His thirst for blood upon the field of
battle.’

The priest’s head turned left and right as he studied the crowd.
Hellebron felt his eyes upon her and stepped to one side, unconsciously
shielding herself behind Maenredil. The priest’s gaze moved on and she
breathed a sigh of relief. She shuddered, though could find no reason
for the momentary fear that had gripped her.

‘It is good to see new faces amongst the familiar,’ continued the
priest. ‘Our Lord Aenarion, founder of Nagarythe, King of Ulthuan, would
be proud to see those that follow in his footsteps. Did not the Lord of
Murder place his blessing upon the troubled brow of Aenarion and deliver
us from the daemons? Did not Aenarion take up the holy blade of Khaine
to smite our enemies? Now, as then, Khaine looks upon the bloody deeds
wrought in his name and is pleased.’

Hellebron felt light-headed. Through the fog of her thoughts, she
realised that there was something besides wood and flesh burning on the
pyre; a narcotic of some kind. She was no stranger to some of the more
exotic leaf and root available from the colonies even further to the
east, but she had only occasionally indulged, and always in the company
of those she knew well. Deep down she objected to being drugged without
her consent, but any protest she might have made stayed deep inside,
held in check by the soporific effect of the vapours she was breathing.

She looked at Lirieth and saw that her sister was wide-eyed, hanging on
the priest’s every word. Maenredil’s face was flushed, his breathing
coming in short pants. Struggling to focus, Hellebron saw others in the
crowd were similarly affected, baring their teeth, hands clenched into
tight fists. She swayed as she turned back to the priest, who had
continued to speak.

His words lost meaning, and the heat of the flames was like the burning
of ice on Hellebron’s skin. It was a pleasant sensation, relaxing and
invigorating at the same time, like a languid dance with a handsome
suitor that promised more vigorous activity later. Hellebron felt the
weight of her cloak on her shoulder pressing into her flesh and flung it
to the ground, glad to be free of its cloying grip.

At the touch of her hand on her skin, she trembled with excitement. She
ran her long fingernails down her throat, delighting at the experience.
Every sense was heightened: the chanting of the priest and his
disciples; the smoke; the crackle of flames; the touch of the breeze;
the softness of the ground underfoot.

Hellebron longed to heighten and sustain the feeling. She ripped off her
boots and cast them aside, revelling in the touch of the bare earth on
the soles of her feet. Her clothes were too tight, constricting, a
barrier between her and the world. She gripped the collar of her loose
shirt and was about to pull herself free from its woven prison when she
felt Maenredil’s hand upon her shoulder.

The sudden intervention startled Hellebron out of her trance. Still
intoxicated, she felt no embarrassment or regret at her actions, but
became suddenly aware that she was not alone.

Something snarled and growled in the darkness beyond the firelight. For
a moment Hellebron was afraid; some creature stalked the woods, perhaps
the bloodthirsty spirit of Khaine Himself. She shrank closer to
Maenredil for protection; saw that Lirieth held his other arm tightly,
eyes wide with excitement, a thin trail of blood leaking down her chin
where she had bitten her lip.

Something stumbled through the undergrowth.

The firelight reflected from two eyes in the darkness, coming closer.
The elves were hushed, all attention on the approaching creature. In the
silence, a harsh panting reverberated around the clearing.

The beast of the forests emerged. It was roughly the height of an elf,
far broader in shoulder and chest. Its head was like that of a goat,
with six curling horns; hair covered its arms and legs, and though
upright, it walked on hooves rather than feet.

Hellebron shuddered, but nobody else seemed the least bit concerned. It
was only after her initial shock that Hellebron noticed the beastman’s
arms were bound behind its back. A short way behind, several Naggarothi
soldiers followed, their spears at the ready.

The beastman glared with red eyes, scowling and grunting at the
assembled elves, angry and confused. With a snarl that exposed rows of
pointed teeth, it lunged towards the audience. The closest guard reacted
instantly, swinging the butt of her spear against the back of the
creature’s legs, sending it sprawling into the packed ash underfoot. The
soldier followed up, rapping her spear against the creature’s jaw,
stunning it.

Hauled to its feet, the beastman staggered as it was thrust towards the
high priest. The attendants swarmed around the sacrifice, forcing it to
its knees, grabbing hair and horns to pull back its head, exposing its
huge chest and vein-corded throat. The high priest gently drew the tip
of his dagger across his own chest, cutting a thin line through the
skin. A single drop of blood seeped from the wound. The high priest
allowed the blood to drip into the goblet he held.

He turned towards the fire, raising the cup in toast.

‘I offer up myself, for all blood runs swift in your name, mighty
Khaine.’ The high priest swung back towards his congregation. ‘In time,
we all pray to give up ourselves in Your name, upon the field of
bloodshed.’

‘Praise Khaine,’ whispered the crowd.

Hellebron’s eyes were fixed on the beastman as the high priest loomed
over it, swathing the creature in shadow. The knife flashed in the
firelight and a line of red appeared across the dark skin of the beast’s
chest. Again and again the knife swept down, lightly touching,
razor-sharp. Soon blood was streaming from two dozen wounds across the
beastman’s body and arms. The cuts were so fine Hellebron thought they
looked like bright red spiders’ webs. Blood oozed across the beast’s
rough skin, matting its body hair, collecting in folds of flesh.

The attendants hauled the beast upright and blood surged from its
injuries, spattering onto the dark ground.

‘Let this be the first of many lives You will taste in the days to
come!’ yelled the high priest. ‘Praise Khaine!’

He plunged his dagger into the creature’s gut.

‘Praise Khaine!’ chanted the crowd.

Braying wildly, the beastman thrashed, but was thrown to the ground.
Four of the attendants leapt upon the creature, driving long nails
through its wrists and ankles, pinning it down. The others set to work
with their blades and hooks, cutting through skin, fat and muscle,
exposing bone and organs. Piece by piece, the beastman was opened up and
laid out for all to see.

Hellebron was fascinated. She was rapt by the intricacy of the work.
Every stroke of dagger was lovingly applied, a deadly caress of a
gesture. The blood was hypnotising, the essence of life gradually
leaking from the creature it sustained. Slippery tubes and strangely
coloured organs were pulled free, while an attendant applied sharp
cutters to the creature’s ribs, splaying them open one at a time until
the heart and lungs were exposed. All the while, the priest filled his
cup with gushing crimson.

‘Praise Khaine!’ shrieked the high priest.

‘Praise Khaine!’ roared the crowd.

The high priest finished the work, handing the goblet of blood to an
assistant so that he could cut free the wildly beating heart. It spasmed
in his hand for a moment, pumping blood across his exposed flesh.

‘Praise Khaine!’ The cry echoed through the woods. Hellebron realised
her voice was amongst those raised in adoration.

The high priest cast the bloodied heart into the flames of the fire,
face turned to the sky. Hellebron looked up and it seemed that the stars
burned red for a moment. She could feel the energy swirling around the
clearing; in the air, in the ground, in the elves around her.

This was power. This was power she could touch, control, shape to her
design.

The goblet of blood was being passed around the worshippers, who each
took a sip. Hellebron fidgeted as it made its way around the clearing,
anxious to partake of the beastman’s strength, desperate to feel the
blessing of Khaine.

Lirieth drank first, wetting her lips, a brief wrinkle of distaste on
her brow. Maenredil took a mouthful, swallowing with relish. He grinned
at Hellebron, exposing his blood-flecked teeth and crimson gums.

Hellebron almost snatched the goblet from his hands. She was the last.
She downed the contents in one draught, tasting iron and forest and
hunger. The thick fluid rolled down her throat and filled her with
warmth – not the warmth of the blood, but something else. She wiped
fingers around the rim of the goblet and licked the last sticky patches
from her fingertips.

Hellebron was suddenly aware that all eyes were turned to her. Murmurs
of disquiet rippled through the crowd. She turned an enquiring look at
Maenredil.

‘The last of the blood is for Khaine, to be poured on the flames,’ the
captain said quietly.

Horrified, Hellebron swung around to the high priest.

‘I meant no disrespect!’ she declared. ‘I did not know.’

The high priest said nothing as one of his attendants snatched the
goblet from Hellebron’s grasp.

‘Wait!’ snarled Hellebron. She grabbed the goblet back and shoved the
protesting attendant to one side. She stalked across the clearing and
stopped just in front of the high priest, thrusting the goblet back
towards him.

‘Take it,’ she said.

The Khainite priest took hold of the cup, but Hellebron did not let go,
pulling it to her stomach. With her other hand, she seized the high
priest’s wrist, pulling forwards the hand that held the sacrificial
dagger.

‘I offer my blood as apology to mighty Khaine.’

Hellebron forced the high priest’s hand down, cutting her chest with his
blade. Blood welled from the wound and dribbled into the goblet. The
sensation was almost overwhelming, a white heat that burned through to
her heart.

‘Praise Khaine!’ she shrieked, pushing the high priest away.

The Khainite looked at Hellebron in confusion. Frustrated, she snatched
the goblet from him and strode to the fire. Upending the vessel, she
threw her own blood into the flames.

‘Accept this offering, Lord of Death, Prince of Murder!’ Hellebron
raised the cup above her head and turned to the others. ‘Bless me with
Your divine anger. Gift to me the rage eternal.’

She fell to her knees, tears of joy streaming down her face. The elves
stood in shock for a moment.

‘Praise Khaine!’ the cry came, started by Maenredil. The rest of the
congregation took up the call, and Hellebron fell to her belly, writhing
in pleasure, screaming prayers to the Lord of Slaughter.

She did not know how long it lasted. Eventually the red haze that had
clouded her vision subsided. The others were leaving; Lirieth and
Maenredil stood to one side, waiting for Hellebron. She became aware of
the stinging pain above her breast. Dried blood caked her shirt.
After-images fluttered in her mind; of the dying beastman, the rising
flames, her blood upon the dagger. She could not believe it was over so
soon.

Hellebron stood, dusted the ash from her clothes and turned to the high
priest.

‘I beseech you, prophet of Khaine, to teach me more,’ she said. She
grabbed his dagger-hand again and held the knife’s point to her chest,
just above her heart. ‘Let me serve Khaine with my life, or else I must
offer Him my death.’

The Khainite smiled and cupped a blood-caked hand to Hellebron’s cheek.
Hellebron looked deep into his eyes and for a moment thought he would
plunge in the dagger.

The Khainite’s murderous look passed. He pulled back the knife.

‘You have been touched by Him in a way that is rare, my child,’ said the
priest. ‘I will come to you tomorrow, and we shall see if you wish to
stay true to this path.’

‘I am of a single mind,’ said Hellebron. ‘I shall be Khaine’s mistress,
devoted to him in every way.’

‘Tomorrow,’ said the Khainite. ‘When the sun is up and your flesh has
cooled, we will see if you still feel the same way. That is my last word
for the moment.’

Hellebron stepped back and nodded. Turning away, her step was light as
she crossed back to Maenredil and Lirieth. Her eyes had been opened. She
could feel Khaine’s touch upon her spirit, always there but now
awakened. She knew what she must do.

Hellebron had found the purpose she had been seeking. As a priestess of
Khaine, she would travel to Anlec, accorded all the respect and awe due
to her position. None save Aenarion would be a greater servant to
Khaine.
