
EIGHT 

The Passing of an Age

Hoping to regain some of his former passion, Malekith renewed his
friendship with the dwarfs of Karak Kadrin, and alongside them took the
fight to the monsters and mutants that came south from the Realm of
Chaos. On occasion the High King would join Malekith in these conquests,
and together they forged along the mountains and across the tundra to
bring civilisation to the icy wilderness.

For a while Malekith was content, his turmoil soothed by the comfort of
battle and his isolation from the politics of the elven princes. With
sword in hand he became master of his own fate once more, and the
legends of his exploits grew in proportion so that again his name was
spoken of in awe by the high and the mighty of the colonies and Ulthuan.

It was here in the bitter cold of the northlands that Malekith first
encountered the tribes of men. Some were savage in the extreme, and
either took flight at first sign of the elven and dwarfen host, or
sallied forth from their caves and crude huts to wage pointless battle
against their far superior foes. At first Malekith took them to be
nothing more than another barbarian people, no different or better than
the orcs or beastmen.

However, as Snorri and Malekith led an army of dwarfs and elves into the
very north of the Saraeluii, a group of humans came forth timidly from
their rough dwellings to greet them. The humans brought with them gifts
of simple bread and roasted meat. Though they had little more than stone
weapons and heavy sticks, they confronted Malekith and Snorri without
fear, grunting in their basic language.

The High King took the proffered food and in return gave the human
chieftain a golden band from his wrist. The man took it and held it up,
admiring the gleam of the metal, and a smile cracked his grimy, bearded
face. With a shuffling gait, the tribal leader beckoned for the two to
follow him back to their caves.

Malekith at first ignored the man, but Snorri was as inquisitive as ever
and followed the elder. Relenting, Malekith walked after them, gesturing
for his warriors to stand ready should anything untoward occur. Barriers
of crudely split wood and curtains of woven grasses and raw animal hides
barred the entrance to the largest of the caves, and smoke billowed out
of the entrance from the cooking fires within. Ducking through the
skins, Malekith found himself in a high, deep cavern.

Half a dozen human females were clustered within, suckling their young.
Older women tended a fire over which roasted half the carcass of an
enormous deer. The humans looked at their visitors with curious,
intelligent eyes, and immediately Malekith recognised that these
creatures were not like the orcs or the beastmen. There was something in
their gaze that spoke of wisdom and emotion, utterly unlike the
unthinking enmity of an orc’s stare.

Snorri tugged at Malekith’s arm and pointed excitedly to the cave walls.
They were painted with many different scenes, interspersed with abstract
symbols and crude pictograms. In particular the High King drew the
prince’s attention to a painting of a small figure, rotund in form and
wielding what looked to be an axe. He had a shock of red hair and a long
red beard, and fought against a band of daemon-like stick figures with
horns and long claws.

‘Grimnir,’ Snorri said with a grin, and Malekith nodded.

The daubings did look somewhat like the Ancestor God of the dwarfs, who
had dyed his hair a fiery orange and wielded a rune axe as he had
ventured into the Realm of Chaos to fight the daemons. That had been
more than a thousand years ago, but the cave paintings seemed no more
than a few years old. Had these humans passed down what they had seen
all those centuries ago, Malekith wondered, leaving paintings and tales
for the next generation? If it was true, it spoke loudly about their
character and intelligence, and Malekith was quietly impressed.

The pair spent a mostly wordless afternoon with the humans, sharing
their food and showing them various trinkets and weapons that they
carried. The humans were awkward and filthy, but Malekith could see in
them a certain nobility of spirit. After they left the camp, promising
through signs and gestures that they would return, Snorri and Malekith
fell into a long debate concerning what to do with these people.

‘They are children of the Old Ones, just as we are,’ the High King said.
‘They are not creatures of Chaos or darkness, though they are simple and
have little civilisation yet.’

‘Yet?’ said Malekith.

‘For sure,’ said Snorri. ‘Without guidance or protection, they have
survived the fall of the Old Ones and the coming of the Dark Gods. With
but a small amount of education from us, they will no doubt become
useful. They are quick to learn, I reckon, and will be attentive to our
lessons.’

‘And to what purpose would you educate them?’ laughed Malekith. ‘Would
you have them as clever labourers, or is there a greater intent to your
proposal?’

‘I would teach them language and writing,’ Snorri replied earnestly.
‘Not the language of the dwarfs perhaps, but a tongue that we can all
understand. They are here for a reason; I can feel it in my bones. It is
our duty to shield them from the worst perils of the world and ensure
that they prosper.’

‘Who are we to judge what should and should not happen?’ countered
Malekith. ‘They have survived thus far by their own wit and strength,
and perhaps it is right that we leave them to find their own path. We
cannot know the will of the gods and the Old Ones, and I agree that they
have a purpose here, but we cannot guess at what it might be. Is it our
place to interfere, or to let things take their course?’

‘Hmm, there is much in what you say,’ said Snorri. ‘However, whatever
their destiny, I cannot see that it was to be consumed by hideous
creatures nor swallowed up by the dark legions of Chaos. Does it not
strike you as odd that they thrive here, under the very shadow of the
Chaos Wastes? I know from kin who have travelled further north that
there are many of these tribes, in the mountains and upon the icy
plains. Is it not preferable that we guard against their corruption, so
that perhaps they might become a bulwark against the armies of the Chaos
Gods?’

‘I would sooner see them as backward friends than clever enemies,’ said
Malekith. ‘What if they take what we can teach them and turn our own
knowledge against us? With stone axes and flint-tipped spears, they are
no threat to us, but who can say what would happen if they learned the
means to work metals, to grow into a nation that might one day look upon
our domains with envy?’

‘There is much we do not know,’ agreed Snorri. ‘This is no matter to be
decided in the course of a single day.’

So the two were in accord, and decided that their peoples would wait and
watch. There was much promise in the race of men, but also much that
could be perverted and turned to darkness. The elves and the dwarfs
would treat their barbaric neighbours with a light touch, allowing them
the shelter of their two empires but otherwise only guiding and shaping
their future with their presence alone.

For an age the world turned and Malekith was content. War and adventure
were plentiful and he returned only seldom to Athel Toralien, preferring
the wild lands to the increasingly managed and austere realms of his
colony. The Naggarothi prince was lauded across all of the colonies, and
here he was king in all but name, for even the other princes admired
what he had achieved.

Let Bel Shanaar rule over dull Ulthuan, Malekith would tell himself. Let
the Phoenix King fill his days settling the arguments of spoilt princes.
Glory and renown forever beckoned to the prince of Nagarythe and he
grasped his opportunities with both hands.

All was to change.

For more than twelve hundred years the colonies grew and endured, and in
that time Malekith’s power abroad knew no rival, except perhaps in
Karaz-a-Karak. Then came word that Bel Shanaar, now rich beyond measure
upon his trade and taxes, planned to travel to the dwarfen capital to
meet his peer, the High King. For most in the cities of the forests this
was heralded as an event worthy of much celebration. However, Malekith
was not pleased.

‘What is his purpose in coming?’ Malekith demanded of Alandrian. He had
just received a letter from Morathi warning of Bel Shanaar’s intent.

The two of them sat in a wide chamber at the heart of the prince’s
winter palace, Malekith’s retreat during the season of ice when his
armies could no longer march. A fire burned in the dwarf-built grate,
and the two elves reclined upon long couches, wrapped in warm woollen
robes.

‘I cannot know his intent, highness,’ replied Alandrian.

‘Do not be coy with me,’ snapped Malekith. ‘What do you think he is up
to? My mother claims his rule is weakening on Ulthuan and he seeks to
bolster his popularity.’

‘Your mother is better placed than I to judge events on Ulthuan,
highness,’ said Alandrian, and then quickly continued after receiving a
cold stare from his master. ‘What she says confirms my own belief.
Though Tiranoc grows rich, there are some princes who feel that Bel
Shanaar does not lead his people. The true glory of our people is in the
colonies. On Ulthuan, life has become so luxurious that none need fight
nor labour. Fields are not tilled, no game is hunted. All she now
desires is sent from the cities across the world: sacks of grain, spiced
meats, cut gems and dwarfen trinkets. Ulthuan grows indolent and her
people lose themselves in poetry and song, wine and debauchery.’

Malekith frowned and stroked his chin.

‘I cannot refuse him directly,’ the prince said. ‘The other cities are
keen for his patronage still.’

‘Many are jealous of you, beneath their smiles and plaudits,’ said
Alandrian. ‘They seek strength from the Phoenix Throne so that they
might become more independent of Athel Toralien.’

‘They simply swap one master for another,’ snarled Malekith. ‘I helped
build them. I keep their lands safe. How do they repay my dedication?
They cry to Bel Shanaar and hope that he will shield them from the cruel
reality of the world.’

‘Perhaps there is opportunity here,’ said Alandrian. ‘If the dwarfs see
Bel Shanaar as weak compared to your greatness, your position grows
stronger.’

‘No, that will not do,’ said Malekith. ‘King Snorri believes our people
to be united, as are his. If Bel Shanaar is seen as weak the High King
will see all elves as weak, including me. He believes that all of
Ulthuan and her princes are as strong as Nagarythe and I. We cannot
undermine that useful illusion by showing him otherwise.’

‘I cannot see how we can turn this to your advantage, highness,’
admitted Alandrian.

‘Why now?’ Malekith mused to himself. ‘Why, after one thousand two
hundred years does Bel Shanaar visit us now?’

It was a question that was to vex Malekith over the long winter months
as he brooded in Athel Toralien. The prince was painfully aware that all
the talk in the colonies was of the Phoenix King’s visit, his own
exploits and glory now forgotten by the fickle, gossiping elves of the
other cities.

The prince was further insulted by the news that Bel Shanaar planned to
visit the city of Tor Alessi first. Taken at face value, this was
reasonable, for the city had been founded by princes from Tiranoc, the
Phoenix King’s own realm. Yet Malekith knew that this was in fact a
subtle slight, for Athel Toralien was paramount in size and power in
Elthin Arvan. Athel Toralien was a capital in all but name, more than
equal in power to Tor Anroc. Bel Shanaar’s intent was to show that
despite this, there were lands still beyond Malekith’s control.

It was mid-summer when the Phoenix King and his entourage arrived at the
Naggarothi city. Malekith ensured that his welcome of the Phoenix King
left Bel Shanaar in no doubt as to where the rule of Elthin Arvan truly
lay. He recalled the greater part of his army, some two hundred thousand
Naggarothi, and lined the road to the city with regiments of black-clad
archers, magnificently armoured knights and grim-faced spearmen.

Such military spectacle had never before been seen, on Ulthuan or
anywhere else. The Naggarothi host dwarfed the guard of the Phoenix
King, even bolstered as the Tiranoc force was by troops from Tor Alessi.
Malekith hoped the comparison between the two armies was not lost on the
other princes.

Not to be outdone by the Phoenix King’s wealth, Malekith lavished his
guests with the finest gifts and hosted banquets in their honour for
thirty days. Herein was another subtle snipe, for Malekith dedicated
each night of festivities to a different guest: one for the Phoenix King
and one each for the twenty-nine princes who accompanied him. Malekith’s
message was clear: Bel Shanaar was the first amongst equals, no greater
than any other.

The day before Bel Shanaar was due to leave, Malekith invited the
Phoenix King to inspect the warriors of Athel Toralien. They drilled
before the city walls, where Malekith stood with his rival upon the
massive northern gate tower. A dozen other princes watched with them,
forcing Malekith to choose his words carefully.

‘I see that you are impressed, majesty,’ said Malekith.

‘Against what threat do you maintain such a force?’ asked Bel Shanaar,
turning his gaze from the marching columns of spearmen filing past far
below the gatehouse.

‘The lands of Elthin Arvan are still home to beasts and orcs,’ Malekith
said. ‘I maintain garrisons in dozens of citadels between the ocean and
the realm of the dwarfs. There is also the ever-present threat from the
north.’

‘Bands of marauders, scattered tribes of thuggish humans?’ Bel Shanaar
laughed.

‘The Dark Gods and their daemonic legions,’ said Malekith, and was
pleased to see the princes momentarily fearful.

‘Caledor’s vortex remains strong,’ Bel Shanaar said dismissively. ‘Such
caution is unnecessary.’

‘I inherited a duty from my father,’ Malekith said, his voice pitched so
that it easily carried to the gathered nobles. ‘I shall protect my
people against any threat, and stand ready to do the same for Ulthuan.’

Bel Shanaar cast a sideways glance at the princes and said nothing. The
Naggarothi continued their manoeuvres until the sun was setting over the
ocean.

‘Well, that was enlightening,’ said Bel Shanaar with a clap of his
hands. He turned towards one of the gate towers and then spun back on
Malekith. ‘I regret that I must depart so soon, but there are others who
have begged me to attend their cities and palaces. The Naggarothi cannot
have me all to themselves, you know.’

Before Malekith could retort, the Phoenix King had moved away and was
surrounded by a gaggle of princes. The Naggarothi prince stormed off in
the opposite direction. He felt the need to vent his frustration and
wondered where Alandrian would be hiding.

The culmination of this tour was the Phoenix King’s arrival at
Karaz-a-Karak. Wishing to display his splendour and power, Bel Shanaar
arrived with an entourage of three thousand elves, and a bodyguard of
ten times that number. The most high-ranking were housed by the dwarfs,
and the others lived in a huge camp that spread for miles along the road
that led to the hold.

The greeting ceremony was like nothing either dwarf or elf had ever seen
before, as both sides attempted to outdo each other in grandiosity and
spectacle. The High King summoned all the kings of the holds to gather
to greet Bel Shanaar; hundreds of lesser princes and nobles and every
ruling prince of Ulthuan attended the Phoenix King – including Malekith.
It was Snorri’s wish that Malekith introduce him to the Phoenix King,
and out of friendship Malekith therefore attended the reception of the
Phoenix King, backed by five thousand of his Naggarothi knights.

The procession was almost a mile long, and more than a hundred banners
fluttered above the column as it made its way up the road to
Karaz-a-Karak on the appointed day. The dwarfs lined the highway
cheering and clapping, and many had been drinking for days on end
beforehand to get in the right spirit. Five hundred kings and thanes
stood as guard for the High King, each accompanied by his banner and
shield bearers, while great runelords and master engineers stood proudly
with their guild standards, surrounded by the clan elders of every hold.

As was to be expected there was a huge feast and many speeches, so that
the whole thing took more than eight days to complete, for every king
and thane had to meet and be formally introduced though many had fought
and even lived beside each other for hundreds of years.

Throughout the celebrations Malekith was on hand to offer whatever
advice and information the Phoenix King required; he deigned to act as
translator for Bel Shanaar. The climax of all this activity came on the
eighth night, as the High King and Phoenix King finally stood together
upon the throne dais of Snorri’s audience hall. Bel Shanaar spoke at
length upon the benefits of the alliance and the splendid welcome of the
dwarfs. He praised the princes for the creation of this corner of the
vast empire, and concluded with an announcement that tested Malekith’s
tolerance to the limit.

‘Elf and dwarf shall be bound forever in immortal friendship,’ Bel
Shanaar declared. ‘As long as our empires endure, may we know peace
between us. As a sign of our dedication to this common cause, we shall
appoint an ambassador to this court, one of our greatest sons. He is the
architect of my empire and the forger of this alliance, and his
authority in these lands shall be as mine. His words will be my
commands. His will shall be my wish. I name Prince Malekith as embassy
to Karaz-a-Karak, and bestow the blessings of all the gods upon his
endeavours.’

Malekith fumed inside at these words, and had to fight to keep his
expression one of gratitude. ‘My empire,’ Bel Shanaar had said. ‘His
will shall be my wish,’ a voice raged inside Malekith’s head. All that
he had laboured and fought to create these many centuries, Bel Shanaar
had taken from him with those few words. What right did the Phoenix King
have to claim anything that Malekith had made possible?

Ambassador? Malekith already had absolute authority over these lands; he
needed no permission from Bel Shanaar. The colonies had been his,
wrested from the wilderness and the hordes of darkness by his own hands.
Blood he had spilt and agonies he had known in the birth of this great
empire, while Bel Shanaar had sat upon his throne in Tor Anroc and
gorged himself upon the spoils of Naggarothi endeavour. Holding his ire
in check, the prince turned and bowed stiffly to the Phoenix King,
avoiding Snorri’s gaze lest he recognise some hint of the anger that
burned within.

For the remainder of the visit, Malekith excused himself from Bel
Shanaar’s company, claiming that he was needed back in Athel Toralien.
In reality, he sought the sanctuary of the forests, for such was
Malekith’s anger he could not look upon the face of another elf for
several months.

Eventually the prince calmed and tried as best he could to return to a
normal life. In the five decades that followed Bel Shaanar’s visit
Malekith sent messages to Morathi frequently, and she replied with equal
regularity. Always she was keen to praise her son for his achievements,
but there was also gentle admonishment that he ignored his father’s
legacy on Ulthuan. Ever she had insisted that he return to the isle to
take up his birthright, and her writing became even more strident
following Bel Shanaar’s visit to Karaz-a-Karak. She too had felt the
slight caused by the Phoenix King’s words and deeds, and Morathi had
ranted at length in her next letter, decrying the hypocrisy of Bel
Shanaar, who spoke out against supposed decadence in Nagarythe.

In this last matter, Malekith’s intuition was roused and he secretively
took more interest in affairs back on Ulthuan. He subtly inquired over
the coming years as to the nature of life in Nagarythe, both through his
missives to Morathi and from loyal Naggarothi who still sailed between
the isle of the elves and the colonies.

The news from the merchants worried him on occasion, for there was talk
of cabalistic cults dedicated to the more sinister elven gods, and of
pleasure sects that lost themselves in luxury and excess. Malekith’s
suspicions were tempered by the letters of Morathi.

‘Jealous of Nagarythe’s prominence despite the Phoenix King’s court
being in Tor Anroc,’ she explained in one of her letters, ‘many of the
ruling princes are waging a subtle and insidious campaign against me and
my council. They will not accuse me outright of any misdeed, but through
innuendo and rumour imply that we are in league with some unknown dark
power.’

Malekith could imagine how the envy of the princes would lead them to
such actions, and believed his mother when she assured him that the
so-called pleasure cults and dark sects were nothing more than ancient
rituals the Naggarothi had always undertaken for the appeasement of the
less fondly regarded elven gods.

‘The Phoenix King has even hinted that he looks unkindly on the
Naggarothi’s connections to Khaine,’ she continued. ‘Our oldest gods he
would see forgotten, while he decorates his halls with gold brought to
his coffers by the spears of our warriors.’

In his reply Malekith told his mother to do nothing to antagonise the
princes or move openly against the Phoenix King, and she promised him it
was so, though her tone was ever defiant to their authority.

Something of what Malekith had heard began to seep into life in the
colonies. Always the elves had enjoyed wine and song, and the reading of
poetry both beautiful and satirical. However, Malekith stayed for
months, sometimes years at a time away from the cities, and so the slow
but subtle changes wrought upon them seemed more stark to him upon his
returns.

A softness of spirit and a laxity that Malekith had detested in Ulthuan
began to creep into the culture of Athel Toralien. Many of his subjects
were now second- and even third-generation colonists, who had not had to
raise a sword in anger to defend their lands, and Malekith feared that
the very stability he had fought to bring to this realm was undermining
the heart of his people. Not wishing to appear tyrannical, Malekith did
not openly oppose the many wine houses and pleasure dens that now seemed
to be found in every other building of the city.

Instead, he commanded his council to institute a formal practice of
inducting Naggarothi who came of age into the ranks of his army. What
once had been tradition Malekith now enforced with law, in the hope that
discipline and military life would breed into a new generation the will
and power of the elves who had first followed him here.

Malekith’s growing contact with mankind awoke his inquisitive spirit,
and he was filled with a passion to deepen his knowledge of this race,
and also of the shadowy powers that held sway over the Chaos Wastes.
Deeper and deeper into the north he ventured, sometimes alone, other
times with a host of his warriors. Though the wild forests had all but
been tamed by the elves, Malekith drove his armies northwards possessed
by a bloodthirsty spirit that worried those who knew the prince well.

It was upon returning from one such campaign that the prince visited his
dwarfen allies in Karak Kadrin. The mood in the hold was sombre as
Malekith entered the throne room of King Brundin, who had inherited the
hold’s rule from his father a few years previously. The king was
surrounded by solemn-faced nobles, amongst them the venerable Kurgrik
whose fortunes had risen considerably since his days of humble logging.

Malekith’s oldest dwarf companion turned and hurried down the steps
towards the prince, stroking his exceptionally long beard in an agitated
fashion.

‘What is amiss?’ asked Malekith.

‘The High King lies upon his deathbed,’ said Kurgrik, wringing his
fingers through his beard. ‘Messengers scour the northlands searching
for you. He asks for you, elven prince. You must go to Karaz-a-Karak!’

Malekith glanced up at the throne dais and saw the crowd of earnest,
grief-stricken faces, and knew that this was no exaggeration.

‘Convey my regrets to King Brundin, but I leave now,’ said Malekith.

The prince turned on his heel and ran from the hall. He dashed through
the doors, ignoring the shouted concerns and questions of his
companions. Down tunnel and across gallery sped Malekith, until he came
upon the great gate. Outside, the elves’ steeds were corralled on the
hillside. Malekith leapt the fence and headed straight for the tallest
of the horses, his own mount. He did not wait for saddle or bridle and
instead leapt onto the steed’s bare back. Malekith turned southwards and
the horse broke into a thundering gallop at a whispered word from her
rider. Vaulting the corral, the pair sped down into Peak Pass.

Though Malekith journeyed swiftly south, fear that he might arrive too
late gnawed at him. When his steed was all but dead from exhaustion, he
turned westwards until he came upon one of the elven towers that guarded
the borders of the great forest of Elthin Arvan. Here he commandeered a
new mount and continued southwards. Driven by worry, Malekith did not
eat or sleep, and rode by the light of the moon as much as the sun.
After three days he neared the hold of Zhufbar. Dwarfs laboured digging
a fresh mineshaft not far from the road, and the prince wheeled his
steed towards them. The dwarfs looked up in astonishment, unexpectedly
confronted by the ambassador of the elves.

‘What news from Karaz-a-Karak?’ Malekith demanded.

‘No news,’ replied their gangmaster, a rugged, tanned dwarf with a
greying golden beard and a hook for a left hand.

‘The High King still lives?’ said Malekith.

‘The last we heard, he does,’ said the dwarf.

Without further word Malekith heeled his mount into a fresh gallop and
sped towards Black Water, where so many years before he had fought
alongside the High King. His mind was devoid of fond memories, so
possessed was Malekith to see his ally before he passed away. Along the
shore he raced, his horse throwing up a wave of spray in its wake as the
prince urged his mount on at dangerous speed.

The following day Malekith took the southern road from Karak Varn direct
to Karaz-a-Karak. Wide enough for many carts, the road was built of
brick and stone, and his passage was swift. He weaved amongst the
dwarfen carts until he spied an elven caravan. Bringing his tired steed
to a halt before the lead caravan, Malekith dismounted and signalled for
the driver to stop.

‘Prince Malekith?’ said the driver. ‘What brings you here?’

‘I need one of your horses,’ said Malekith, already untying the traces
on the foremost of the three beasts drawing the wagon.

‘You can ride with me, highness,’ offered the driver, but the prince
paid him no heed and away he galloped without explanation or payment.

Two more days Malekith rode hard until finally he came before the great
gates of Karaz-a-Karak. For the first time he did not marvel at their
golden majesty, nor regard with awe the huge towers and buttresses that
flanked the huge doors. His steed sweating hard, he galloped up the
road. The guards at the gate made to step forwards to bar his route but
he did not slow. Recognising the prince and seeing his intent, the
guards hurled themselves out of his path, pushing away other dwarfs to
clear a passage.

Through the gate raced the prince, the clatter of his horse’s hooves on
the tiles echoing from the high vaults. Dwarfs were sent ducking into
doorways and scurrying in every direction as he pounded through the
winding tunnels towards the king’s chambers. Only when he saw a crowd of
the king’s advisors pressed around the door to one of the king’s rooms
did he slow down. Leaping from the back of the horse, he ran forwards
and grabbed the closest of the nobles, a loremaster called Damrak
Goldenfist.

‘Am I too late?’ he demanded.

The stunned dwarf said nothing for a moment and then shook his head.
Malekith let go of Damrak and slumped against the wall.

‘You misunderstand me, ambassador,’ said Damrak, laying a gnarled hand
on Malekith’s arm. ‘The king still awaits you.’

The solemn beating of drums could be heard echoing along the halls and
corridors of Karaz-a-Karak. The small chamber was empty save for two
figures. His face as pale as his beard, King Snorri lay on the low, wide
bed, his eyes closed. Kneeling next to the bed, a hand on the dwarf’s
chest, was Malekith. He had stood vigil with the ancient dwarf for three
days since arriving, barely sleeping or eating in that time.

The room was hung with heavy tapestries depicting the battles the two
had fought together, suitably aggrandising Snorri’s role. Malekith did
not begrudge the king his glories, for was not his own name sung loudly
in Ulthuan while the name of Snorri Whitebeard was barely a whisper?
Each people to their own kind, the elf prince thought.

Snorri’s eyelids fluttered open to reveal cloudy, pale blue eyes. His
lips twisted into a smile and a fumbling hand found Malekith’s arm.

‘Would that dwarf lives were measured as those of the elves,’ said
Snorri. ‘Then my reign would last another thousand years.’

‘But even so, we still die,’ said Malekith. ‘Our measure is made by what
we do when we live and the legacy that we leave to our kin, as any
other. A lifetime of millennia is worthless if its works come to naught
after it has ended.’

‘True, true,’ said Snorri with a nod, his smile fading. ‘What we have
built is worthy of legend, isn’t it? Our two great realms have driven
back the beasts and the daemons, and the lands are safe for our people.
Trade has never been better, and the holds grow with every year.’

‘Your reign has indeed been glorious, Snorri,’ said Malekith. ‘Your line
is strong; your son will uphold the great things that you have done.’

‘And perhaps even build on them,’ said Snorri.

‘Perhaps, if the gods will it,’ said Malekith.

‘And why should they not?’ asked Snorri. He coughed as he pushed himself
to a sitting position, his shoulders sinking into thick,
gold-embroidered white pillows. ‘Though my breath comes short and my
body is infirm, my will is as hard as the stone that these walls are
carved from. I am a dwarf, and like all my people, I have within me the
strength of the mountains. Though this body is now weak, my spirit shall
go to the Halls of the Ancestors.’

‘It will be welcomed there, by Grungni and Valaya,’ said Malekith. ‘You
shall take your place with pride.’

‘I’m not done,’ said Snorri with a frown. His expression grim, the king
continued. ‘Hear this oath, Malekith of the elves, comrade on the
battlefield, friend at the hearth. I, Snorri Whitebeard, High King of
the dwarfs, bequeath my title and rights to my eldest son. Though I pass
through the gateway to the Halls of the Ancestors, my eyes shall remain
upon my empire. Let it be known to our allies and our enemies that death
is not the end of my guardianship.’

The dwarf broke into a wracking cough, blood flecking his lips. His
lined faced was stern as he looked at Malekith. The elf steadily
returned his gaze.

‘Vengeance shall be mine,’ swore Snorri. ‘When our foes are great, I
shall return to my people. When the foul creatures of this world bay at
the doors to Karaz-a-Karak, I shall take up my axe once more and my ire
shall rock the mountains. Heed my words, Malekith of Ulthuan, and heed
them well. Great have been our deeds, and great is the legacy that I
leave to you, my closest confidant, my finest comrade-in-arms. Swear to
me now, as my dying breaths fill my lungs, that my oath has been heard.
Swear to it on my own grave, on my spirit, that you shall remain true to
the ideals we have both striven for these many years. And know this,
that there is nothing so foul in the world as an oath-breaker.’

Malekith took the king’s hand from his arm and squeezed it tight. ‘I
swear it,’ the elf prince said. ‘Upon the grave of High King Snorri
Whitebeard, leader of the dwarfs and friend of the elves, I give my
oath.’

Snorri’s eyes were glazed and his chest no longer rose and fell.
Malekith’s keen hearing could detect no sign of life, and he did not
know whether his words had been heard. Releasing Snorri’s hand, he
folded the king’s arms across his chest, and with a delicate touch from
his long fingers, Malekith closed Snorri’s eyes.

Standing, Malekith spared one last glance at the dead king and then
walked from the chamber. Outside, Snorri’s son Throndik stood along with
several dozen other dwarfs.

‘The High King has passed on,’ Malekith said, his gaze passing over the
heads of the assembled dwarfs and across to the throne room. He looked
down at Throndik. ‘You are now High King.’

Without further word, the elf prince picked his way gracefully through
the crowd and out across the nearly empty throne chamber. He stopped
halfway towards the throne and gazed up at the high dais. He remembered
perfectly the first time he had been here. At the time Malekith’s
attention had been focused on Aernuis; the High King had barely
registered in his thoughts. Now all he could think about was the dwarf
now lying still in that small bedchamber.

The throne was empty. Everything was empty. The wars against the orcs
and the beasts had been won. The forests had been tamed by the elves and
the mountains conquered by the dwarfs. Bel Shanaar had robbed him of
rulership of the colonies. It was as if Snorri had unknowingly taken the
last days of glory to his grave. His friend was dead and there was
nothing else to fight for.

Nothing except the Phoenix Throne.

Over the following decade, Malekith became ever more distant from his
court in Athel Toralien. As he had done so in Nagarythe, he appointed a
wise and well-regarded council of fellow princes and other dignitaries
to rule in his stead, and passed on the mantle of ambassador to
Carnellios, a prince of Cothique who had been part of the original talks
and whom the dwarfs had come to trust. Once content that all was in
order, the prince declared that he would go into the north again, for
many years, perhaps never to return, and he asked for volunteers to
accompany him.

After issuing his proclamation, Malekith set out on a tour of the
castles and citadels that protected the lands of Athel Toralien, to
extend his offer to all of their garrisons. He picked the finest
captains, knights and archers from amongst their number and returned to
the city with seventy warriors.

Riding upon the west–east road to Athel Toralien, the prince and his
company came upon a great encampment outside the city’s walls,
stretching for almost half a mile. Great marquees and pavilions housed
rich nobles, while more moderate tents were numbered in the many
hundreds.

Yeasir was at the east gate to greet his master.

‘Thank the gods you have returned,’ said the captain, grabbing the
bridle of Malekith’s steed to allow the prince to dismount.

‘Some emergency?’ said Malekith, handing the reins to one of his
companions. ‘An orcish horde perhaps? Beasts from the north?’

‘No, no,’ said Yeasir. ‘There is no threat.’

‘Then why do I have an army of vagabonds and princes at my gate?’
demanded Malekith, turning to stare at the tent-city stretching along
the road.

‘They all wish to accompany you on your voyage,’ Yeasir said
breathlessly.

‘All of them?’ said Malekith, eyebrows raised.

‘Six thousand seven hundred and twenty-eight,’ said Yeasir. ‘Well,
according to the roll of volunteers that Alandrian was forced to begin.
They filled the city at first and there was no room in the docks or
markets. We had to send them outside, and provided many with shelters.’

‘I cannot take more than five hundred,’ said Malekith. ‘Send away any
that have wives or children, and any that have never drawn blood in
battle. That should thin out the numbers a little.’

‘Yes, highness,’ said Yeasir. ‘Many are not Naggarothi, do you wish them
to accompany you?’

‘Only if they swear loyalty to Nagarythe,’ said the prince with a frown.
‘And I don’t want anyone under three hundred years old. I need
experience; seasoned veterans.’

‘There are eighteen princes of various realms,’ Yeasir said. ‘What shall
I do with them?’

‘They seek to glorify themselves in the glow of my deeds,’ snapped
Malekith. ‘Any that are not of Nagarythe, and I mean Nagarythe, not this
city, send them home. I will talk to any you feel are worthy of my
attention.’

‘As you wish, highness,’ said Yeasir, bowing as he left.

Malekith stared out along the road as news of his return began to spread
through the camp. Horns sounded, and more and more elves came out of
their tents and began to converge on the city. Hundreds of them soon
packed the road, crying out to the prince for his attention. Malekith
turned his back on them and walked into the city. He turned his head to
one of the guards.

‘Shut the gate until they go away,’ the prince snapped.

Five hundred elves Malekith chose to be his companions; enough to man a
ship and fight, but few enough to feed and supply out in the wilds.
Almost half were nearly as old as Malekith and some had journeyed with
him from Ulthuan. All were without family, for Malekith knew that he
ventured into the truly unknown, and whatever perils lay ahead he was
determined that his wanderlust would not leave a legacy of widows and
orphans.

Alandrian organised the provisioning of the expedition and the
repatriation of those who had been turned away. Amongst his many duties
he managed to catch up with Malekith one evening.

‘Is all ready?’ asked the prince, sitting on a low chair upon the
balcony of his city house. He gestured for Alandrian to help himself to
the contents of a crystal decanter perched on a small table. Alandrian
poured himself a goblet of golden wine and sat down.

‘If I could make a suggestion, your highness,’ Alandrian said
delicately. ‘Perhaps five hundred and one companions would be better for
you.’

‘Five hundred and one?’ said Malekith, and then he gave a laugh and a
nod of understanding. ‘You wish to offer your service?’

‘I do, highness,’ said the lieutenant. ‘Yeasir accompanies you, and so
would I.’

‘It cannot be done,’ said Malekith. ‘Yeasir has no family. You have a
beautiful wife who has borne you two equally beautiful daughters. I
could no more rob them of their father than I could cut off a limb.’

‘You are destined for great glory,’ said Alandrian. ‘I have served well
and attended my duties with vigour and loyalty. I ask only that I be
allowed to continue my service.’

‘Your time of service is no more,’ said Malekith. He held up a hand to
stop Alandrian’s protest. ‘I have had papers drawn up, declaring you a
prince of Nagarythe and the ruler of Athel Toralien.’

‘A prince?’ stammered Alandrian.

‘That is right,’ said Malekith, laughing at his friend’s stunned
expression. ‘I was going to wait a while before making an announcement
but you have forced my hand. You will be my regent in Elthin Arvan.
Yeasir is a soldier first and last, and I will name him commander of
Nagarythe, the title I once held when my father was alive. You are a
leader, with a patience to match your wisdom and your gift with words.
You can best serve me not with spear point but with quill point. Rule
Athel Toralien in the finest traditions of Nagarythe. Be ever ready to
come to the aid of your homeland. Most of all you must enjoy yourself
and take what reward you can from the life the gods have given you!’

Malekith raised his goblet in toast to his companion, who half-heartedly
lifted his own, still shocked by the prince’s declaration.
