
EIGHT 

A New Legend

The wind had died down and the snow abated, but the late afternoon air
was chill as Koradrel led the hunting party back towards the road to Tor
Achare. Space had been made on one of the sleds for the bodies of the
elves that had been killed by the manticore; another was laden with the
hide, head and claws of the beast, for artificers to make suitable
trophies.

‘It seems we are not alone,’ said Imrik, pointing to the west.

A thin column of smoke could be seen against the setting sun, drifting
up from the forested slopes of Anul Anrian. Koradrel looked to the west,
brow knotted in a frown.

‘That’s a large fire for a camp,’ he said, signalling to one of the
guides to join him. The elf jogged to join his prince. ‘It could be
nothing, but go and take a look. It may be that some monster has caused
the blaze.’

The scout trotted off from the path, disappearing quickly beneath the
pines that lined the mountainside on either side of the trail.

‘What manner of beast could set such a fire?’ said Imrik as the two
continued on, the caravan of sleds not far behind.

‘Who can say?’ replied Koradrel with a shrug that set his lion cloak
swinging. ‘There are all kinds of creatures in these mountains that defy
definition; things warped by Chaos and sustained by the vortex.’

‘How far to the camp?’ asked Imrik. He was feeling tired and his chest
was bruised from the manticore’s attack.

‘Not far,’ Koradrel said. He pulled a small clay bottle from a pouch at
his belt and unstoppered it. The Chracian passed the bottle to Imrik
with a smile. ‘This will keep you warm for a while longer.’

‘Charinai?’ Imrik said, sniffing the bottle’s contents. He took a swig
of the spiced spirit, which warmed his mouth and throat to leave a
pleasant taste of autumn fruits. ‘I hope you have more.’

‘There is a bottle in my pack somewhere,’ Koradrel replied with a grin.
‘We can celebrate our kill properly once we reach the campsite.’

Imrik passed the liquor back to his cousin, feeling invigorated by the
brew. He glanced again to the west and hoped the smoke was something
mundane; he did not feel in the mood for another encounter with Chrace’s
bestial denizens.

The Sea Guard spread around the clearing, spears and shields held at the
ready, forming a cordon around the smoking ruins of a cabin. Carathril
approached with sword unsheathed, eyes scanning the surrounding treeline
for any sign of the perpetrators.

‘Here!’ Neaderin called out from beside a smaller pile of charred wood,
most likely an outhouse of some kind. Two crows flapped away from
something at Neaderin’s feet, startled by his shout. The captain’s voice
was tense, and he stepped away from whatever he had found, shoulders
hunched.

Carathril crossed the clearing quickly. He stopped dead as his eyes fell
upon Neaderin’s discovery, his stomach twisting in revulsion.

He was not sure how many bodies there were in the ash, but the size of
some of the bones meant that children had been slain. What remained of
the burned flesh was hacked and gouged, scattered into the flames. There
was blood in the snow. A lot of blood. A short distance away, where the
crows had been, entrails had been laid out. The interference of the
carrion birds had not dislodged the gory pattern so much that it could
not be recognised: a rune of Khaine.

Carathril shuddered as he remembered the places he had seen such
depravity before; in the cult lairs of Lothern and the fortress of
Ealith in Nagarythe.

‘Naggarothi,’ said Carathril. ‘Assassins sent after Imrik.’

‘How can you be sure?’ replied Neaderin, not looking back towards the
grisly scene. ‘This could be the work of Chracian cultists.’

‘Unlikely,’ said Carathril. ‘Had we found such a thing in Tor Achare, I
would be tempted to believe you. Here, in the wilderness, it seems too
much of a coincidence. These unfortunates were tortured before they were
slain. This is a tree-feller’s lodge. The only other thing this poor
family would know is where to find the best pine groves.’

‘So what do we do?’ asked Neaderin. ‘There is no sign of any trail
leaving the clearing. Whoever did this covered their tracks.’

‘Or left none,’ said Carathril, remembering the strange ways of the
raven heralds. If such secrets were known to the assassins, Imrik was in
grave peril.

At that moment, there was a call from one of the Sea Guard, who had
fanned out to search the treeline. Neaderin and Carathril ran over to
see what had been discovered.

‘Your assassins made a mistake,’ said Neaderin, bending to one knee as
the Sea Guard pointed at a patch of snow sheltered between the roots of
a tree. Carathril saw a few drops of red on the white.

‘They headed north-east,’ he said. ‘There’s nothing else, call your
company back. We must hurry if we are to warn Imrik.’

The soldiers rallied to the clearing at the call of their captain and
headed out after the assassins, armour jingling as they ran into the
woods.

The sun had almost disappeared behind the mountains and the sky to the
east was a deep blue, the first stars visible, the crescent of Sariour
appearing over the horizon. Elthanir knew his prey was close. The pain
in his head had almost abated, leaving just a dull ache to nag at his
thoughts. He could smell wood smoke on the light breeze, coming from a
fire to the north. That concurred with the woodcutter’s confession.

Sensing this too, the other assassins spread out as they moved through
the close trunks of the pine trees. Elthanir began a whispered mantra,
the incantation of a spell that drew in the magic of the vortex. Sorcery
swirled around him, bending and shifting, seeping into his body.

Glancing at the others, he saw them doing the same. One moment seven
black-clad figures stalked into the shadow; the next they were gone.

Stepping so lightly his feet left no mark upon the fallen needles and
mulch, Elthanir stalked northwards. Owls hooted and small mammals
scurried past, paying no heed to his presence as he slipped between the
trees, pulling a recurved short bow from the quiver across his back and
quickly stringing it as he walked. Ahead, he saw the distant twinkle of
orange that was the campfire. He slid an arrow into place, its tip
glistening with poison made from the black lotus. The assassin moved so
he could see the fire a little better. There were half a dozen large
tents, and hunters clad in lion-pelt cloaks moved about the camp. He
settled down against a tree to wait for his victim to show himself.

There was laughter, and scattered verses of song. The Chracians were in
high spirits. Elthanir could not remember what it was like to know such
joy; the only pleasure he felt came from the act of killing and the
infliction of pain.

The last rays of the sun streamed through the branches ahead, mingling
with the smoke of the fire. A tent flap cracked and a tall elf emerged,
clad in armour, a sword at his hip. He wore no lion cloak and Elthanir
recognised him immediately: the Caledorian! Hatred welled up inside the
assassin, remembering the agony he had felt, the image of his victim
burned into his mind.

Imrik wandered away from the fire, heading to Elthanir’s right. He moved
from his position, flitting from shadow to shadow, disturbing nothing,
the roosting birds overhead oblivious to his presence. He caught sight
of his quarry again, standing in a small clearing, looking up into the
clear skies.

Elthanir sighted on the prince, raising his bow. He gently pulled back
the string, enjoying the tautness in his hand, revelling in the moment
of death. With a satisfied smile, he loosed the arrow.

Imrik enjoyed the touch of the fresh air on his cheek after the heat of
the camp. The clouds had cleared and he looked up at the stars,
remembering the constellations as they had been taught to him by his
mother. As he turned his gaze downwards, his eyes caught something close
to the edge of the clearing. It was a line of paw marks in the shallow
snow, each several times as large as his hand. It was unmistakeably the
trail of a white lion.

Just as he looked up, he saw a glint in the air. Reacting without
thought, Imrik threw himself to one side, hand pulling his sword free in
one fluid gesture, the blade flashing up to slice the arrow in half as
it passed within a hand’s breath of his shoulder.

Movement to his left caught his eye and he turned and shifted again,
this time a dagger spinning end-over-end out of the shadows. Imrik
deflected it with the flat of his blade.

‘Attack!’ he yelled, spinning on his heel, searching for some sign of
his assailants. He saw nothing but darkness. ‘Assassins!’

He heard the thud of feet and spun around, sword ready.

A lion whose shoulder was as high as the prince’s rushed from the woods,
fangs bared, its pale fur shining in the starlight. The Caledorian
prince met its gaze, looking into deep yellow eyes filled with feral
hunger. Imrik leapt aside as the lion raced towards him, just as he
expected it to pounce.

The lion ignored him and ran straight across the clearing. On reaching
the trees it leapt, paws outstretched. Blood splashed onto a nearby tree
trunk, though from what Imrik could not see. Roaring and biting, the
lion struggled with something that seemed to be made of shadow. Cuts
opened up in its white hide, adding the lion’s blood to the mess, but a
moment later a hand fell into view, ragged bone jutting from it. There
was a piercing wail and an elf clad in black staggered into the
clearing.

Alerted by a shout, Koradrel snatched up his axe and ran from the tent
he shared with his cousin. He heard the roar of a lion and set off at a
sprint towards it, fearing Imrik was being attacked by one of the fabled
white-furred beasts. The other hunters surged from the camp behind him.

He found his cousin in a small clearing a short distance from the camp,
sword in hand, circling constantly, his blade sweeping and chopping in
what seemed to be a mad slashing at thin air. Something fluttered on the
edge of Koradrel’s vision, a hazy mist that parted and reformed at the
blade’s passing.

As he neared the edge of the trees, Koradrel thought he saw something
else, a greater darkness in the shadows behind Imrik. There was
definitely movement. Not knowing what manner of spirits attacked his
cousin, Koradrel slid to a stop and hurled his axe at the apparition
closing in behind Imrik. It whirled across the clearing and struck the
deeper shadow, stopping in the air. A heartbeat later, the body of an
elf collapsed to the snow, almost cleaved in twain from shoulder to
waist by the axe blade.

There were shouts from the other hunters as they encountered more
shadowy foes in the woods, and the ring of metal on metal. There were
cries of pain as well, and the whicker of darts and arrows cut the air.

The stupefying effect of the charinai continued to flush from Imrik’s
body as he raised his sword to fend off another blurred attack towards
his throat. As he staggered back the light of the moons broke through
the cloud, ­bathing the clearing in silvery-green light. At that moment,
he caught sight of his assailant, a flicker of a figure in the glow of
the Chaos moon, swirling with the power of the vortex.

Imrik lunged without thought to drive the point of his blade towards the
assassin’s face. The shadowy attacker leaned away from the attack, a
dagger glinting in the moonlight ringing against Imrik’s blade. Even as
the moonlight faded behind the clouds again Imrik pressed his attack,
slashing his sword left and right, feeling its tip connect with flesh.
There was a cry of pain and Imrik thrust high. Blood spattered along the
etched blade and the magic of Lathrain flared, white licks of fire
erupting along the blade.

Still swathed in shadow, the assassin flailed across the clearing, his
­clothing burning with pale flame so that he appeared a hazy silhouette
of dark cloud engulfed by white fire, darkness and light swirling and
battling.

Hearing fresh steps behind him, Imrik turned, sword at the ready.
Koradrel raced into the clearing and snatched up his axe from the body
of another assassin as more lion-cloaked hunters ran from the woods. One
of the Chracians fell, a barbed dart in his arm, blood pouring from eyes
and nose as the poison quickly took effect. There was a lighter blur in
the dark and a savage growl rebounded from the trees; the white lion
still prowled the woods.

‘How many?’ panted Imrik.

‘Four are dead,’ said Koradrel. ‘I do not know how many still live.’

‘There!’ bellowed one of the huntsmen, pointing to the south as a dark
shape sped from the treeline, the faint light catching a glint on a
raised blade.

Three of the hunters leapt to meet the assassin; the first toppled to
the ground in the next heartbeat, head falling separately. The other two
swung their axes high and low and the crunch of breaking bones broke the
stillness. A mangled body appeared, slumped on the ground, a curved,
serrated blade falling from the assassin’s dead grasp.

Silence reclaimed the woods.

Koradrel and the hunters closed around Imrik, axes held at the ready.
They stood in the centre of the clearing, as far from the trees as
possible, all eyes turned outwards.

‘Above!’ shouted Imrik, seeing a haze pass across the moonlit clouds.

His warning came too late as the gloom-cloaked attacker landed in the
midst of the group, blood spraying as twin knives flashed. The hunters
could not use their axes, afraid their wide swings would hit each other.
The band scattered, trying to create space, two more of them falling
with pained screams as their throats were cut.

Imrik’s sword needed no such room and the prince sprang towards the
shadow of the assassin, arm outstretched. The point lanced into
something hard and deflected away.

‘Duck!’ shouted Koradrel and Imrik immediately dropped to the ground.

A moment later the axe head of Koradrel swung over the Caledorian,
connecting heavily with the assassin. A severed arm flew from the
shadow-shape and the air was split by a piercing howl of pain. Imrik
surged to his feet, swinging up his sword, the blade burning as it
cleaved through the wounded assassin’s breast, slicing through ribs and
heart.

After the flurry of violence, peace descended again.

Still Imrik was not sure if all of his attackers had been slain. Nobody
spoke as the group reformed around the princes. Every flutter of a leaf
or creak of a branch drew the attention of the elves, who peered into
the darkness with wide eyes, searching for the slightest sign of a foe.

After some time, Imrik relaxed and sheathed his sword.

‘That is the last,’ he said.

‘Are you sure?’ said Koradrel.

‘Yes,’ replied Imrik, though his eyes said otherwise as they flickered
towards a particular tree on the edge of the clearing, between the elves
and their tents. Koradrel caught his meaning and gave the slightest of
nods.

‘Let us return to the camp,’ said the Chracian. ‘Gather the dead and
attend to the wounded.’

The two princes set off towards the trees, weapons in hand. When they
were only a few paces from the shadows, the last assassin struck,
leaping from the gloom with sword outstretched. Koradrel had been
expecting the attack and caught the blade with his axe, turning it aside
as Imrik chopped with his sword, slashing down where he thought the
assassin’s neck to be.

His aim was not far off; the black-clad body that tumbled to the ground
had its skull nearly sheared through. Imrik pulled free his blade with a
grimace.

‘Nobody sleeps tonight,’ he said.

‘I don’t think anybody could after this,’ Koradrel replied.

In all, eight hunters had been slain in the fight, three more wounded,
one of those in a fever from a poisoned cut and not expected to survive
until dawn. All of the elves sat in vigil for the rest of the night, the
fires banked high with wood, whispering prayers to Ereth Khial to watch
over the spirits of the slain.

Dawn was not far off when the sound of a large body of soldiers could be
heard coming up the valley. The Chracians were alert, two of the guides
heading down the track to investigate while the rest stood guard at the
camp and manned the bolt thrower.

It was a testing wait for Imrik. The fight with the manticore and the
attempt on his life had left him feeling drained, his body weak from the
exertions of the day. He pulled his sword free and stood with the
others, waiting anxiously.

There was no sound of fighting and after a while, the scouts returned
with the third of their number who had been sent to investigate the
fire. With them came another elf, clad in silver armour.

‘Who is this?’ demanded Koradrel.

‘I know him,’ said Imrik, sheathing his sword. ‘He is Carathril, herald
of the Phoenix King. He can be trusted.’

The Chracians relaxed only slightly as the herald approached the camp.
Behind him came a company of warriors bearing shields with the emblem of
the Sea Guard.

‘In a night of surprises, this is the last thing I expected,’ said
Koradrel. ‘What brings a herald of the Phoenix King to the wilds of
Chrace?’

‘Grave events have engulfed Ulthuan,’ said Carathril. ‘Bel Shanaar is
dead and a great many of our princes have been slain at the Isle of the
Flame. Malekith tried to become Phoenix King and was killed by the
flames.’

‘Caledrian?’ said Imrik, his heart heavy with foreboding,

Carathril shook his head.

‘Your brother is amongst the dead,’ said the herald. ‘Yet Thyrinor
survived.’

Imrik swallowed hard at the news. His thoughts flashed back to when he
had been told of his father’s death and been presented with Lathrain.
Emptiness swallowed his heart at the realisation that Caledrian was
slain, and the gulf widened as he realised that he was now ruling prince
of Caledor.

Carathril beckoned to one of the Sea Guard, who entered the camp bearing
a bundle wrapped in waxed leather. The herald took this and walked up to
Koradrel.

‘These are for you,’ he said, eyes downcast.

Koradrel took the bundle and opened it. Inside were a folded banner of
red with a white lion’s face embroidered upon it and an axe, its
double-bladed head like the wings of a silver butterfly etched with
forks of lightning.

‘Achillar, and the banner of Chrace,’ said Koradrel, choking on the
words. He looked at Carathril. ‘Where are my brother and nephew?’

‘Also slain,’ Carathril said. He gave a solemn bow. ‘You are now the
ruling prince of Chrace.’

There were moans and mutters from the other Chracians, and some swore
oaths to the gods to find the perpetrators of such a crime.

‘The Naggarothi have revealed their true colours,’ said Carathril in
answer. ‘It was knights of Anlec that killed so many at the Shrine of
Asuryan, and I have good information that Morathi has been freed and
returned to Anlec.’

Carathril reached into his robe and drew out a folded piece of
parchment. He handed it to Imrik, who looked numbly at the letter, not
understanding its importance. He pushed back the grief that welled up
inside him and directed an inquiring look at Carathril.

‘Bel Shanaar wrote this to you before he died,’ explained the herald.

‘The seal is broken,’ said Imrik, unfolding the letter.

‘Thyriol instructed me to open it,’ said Carathril. ‘Read it first and
then hear my message from him.’

Imrik scanned the letter quickly, saying nothing. Its content came as no
surprise, although it seemed now more prophetic than perhaps had been
intended.

‘What else?’ said Imrik.

‘Those princes that have survived, Thyriol, Finudel and a few others,
have chosen you to become Phoenix King,’ said Carathril. He looked at
Koradrel. ‘They do not expect any objection to the nomination.’

‘And they will get none from me,’ said the Chracian.

‘These are desperate times,’ said Carathril. ‘The situation has changed.
Ulthuan does not need you as a general, it needs you as a king.’

‘Why?’ said Imrik.

Carathril was taken aback by the question and took a moment to reply.

‘You are the best of the princes, and you have the support of your
fellows,’ said the herald. ‘Caledor remains strong, and you will need
that strength. You have the dragon princes to come to your call.’

Imrik nodded, accepting each point.

‘No other prince who survives can match you, Imrik. They are slain, all
but a few of the greatest of Ulthuan. The Phoenix Throne is empty, the
crown unworn, and the kingdoms are in disarray.’

‘Bad,’ said Imrik. ‘Very bad.’

‘What does this mean?’ said Koradrel. ‘Malekith dead, Morathi reigns
again in Nagarythe, princes slain and assassins in the shadows?’

Imrik looked at the other elves, seeing fear and hope in their
expressions. Fear of what had happened; hope that he would protect them.
There was no higher calling, no greater duty that he could be asked to
fulfil.

‘What will become of us?’ said one of the Chracians. ‘What happens now?’

Imrik took a deep breath and nodded his assent to Carathril and
Koradrel. His hard stare met the gazes of those around him and he
answered the question that loitered in all of their minds.

‘War.’
