
six 

Khaine’s Legacy

In the distance, the horizon was smudged by the dark green of the
forests, broken by the glittering snake of a river. To the north,
Hellebron could just about see the ploughed fields of the farmlands,
while closer at hand the land rippled with heather-covered hills.
Directly beneath the narrow window the tower’s gardens exploded with
colour, filled with the full bloom of spring. White pebble paths led
between the flower beds to an immaculate lawn where servants were
clipping the grass, moving on their knees in a row.

It was a very picturesque prison.

The gardens were bordered by a high hedge, and Hellebron could see the
glint of the soldiers as they patrolled the road beyond. If she leaned
out, she would look down on the helmets of the warriors guarding the
tower door.

The first year had been the most difficult. Hellebron had ranted and
raved, broken the furniture a dozen times, smashed the gilded mirrors,
set fire to the expensive rugs, but her father had not relented in his
decision.

The second year Hellebron had spent in deep thought, fantasising a
hundred ways by which she might escape. She had skill enough with a
sword to break free, but she was half a day from the city. No horses
were kept in the stables and she would be caught before she ever sighted
Athel Toralien; even if by some chance she reached the city, there was
little hope of entering without being seen. The alternative was to head
east, but a life of exile would be as bad as imprisonment, with none of
the comforts.

The third year Hellebron had spent writing letters to her sister, who
languished in similar confinement far to the north. Lirieth’s replies
told of the great cliffs on which her gaol stood, and the waves that
crashed day and night.

Hellebron had no doubt that her letters were opened and read, and that
anything of suspicion would be reported to her father. That had not
stopped her from communicating her plans and desires; the two sisters
thought so alike, they were able to discern the subtlest meaning in the
seemingly bland correspondence. Lirieth wrote always of patience;
Hellebron urged her sister to remain strong.

Prince Alandrian visited frequently. At first, Hellebron had refused to
see him, going as far as to throw missiles at him out of the window.
When he stopped coming, she had written to him, apologising for her
behaviour, hoping that perhaps she could reason with him, or maybe even
tug on his emotions enough to secure her release.

Her father had offered a simple choice: renounce her dedication to
Khaine or remain imprisoned. Hellebron had given no answer, and spent
much time considering her response. She would not be able to renounce
Khaine in name only; there would be many elves only too willing to spy
on her to ensure she stayed true to her word. To give up her position as
a Bride of Khaine would be to admit defeat and cast aside all the
ambition that she harboured.

This Hellebron could not do, and with reluctance told her father that
she would not renounce her love of Khaine. He had nodded, perhaps even
with a hint of pride, and told her that the offer would always be open
to her.

Three and a half years was not a considerable time in the reckoning of
the elves, but to Hellebron it was a slow torture. Day by day she knew
her dreams were slipping away. Her father had allowed Liannin to remain
as maid, and through secret messages she sneaked out of the tower,
Hellebron continued to send words of encouragement to her followers and
in return received news of what passed in Athel Toralien and the other
cities.

After a ban lasting a year, Alandrian had capitulated to the continuing
demands of the cults, and the temples had been reopened, even the shrine
to Khaine. Without Hellebron and Lirieth, the Khainites were a much
lesser force, returned to the status of military indulgence rather than
a true sect. Now and then a beastman or greenskin, even the occasional
human marauder from the North, would be brought to the city to appease
the Bloody-Handed God. It seemed that Lethruis had won from beyond the
grave.

A knock on the door broke Hellebron’s thoughts.

‘Enter.’

Liannin opened the door, consternation showing in her face.

‘Prince Alandrian is here to see you,’ said the maid.

‘He was here only three days ago,’ said Hellebron. ‘Why has he returned
so soon?’

‘He has not said anything to me,’ said Liannin. ‘He is waiting for you
in the South Hall.’

Hellebron nodded and stood.

‘Tell him I will join him as soon as I am presentable.’

Liannin departed, closing the door softly, leaving Hellebron alone with
a sudden rush of thoughts and questions. Only something of immediate and
high importance would have brought her father back. Hellebron sat in
front of the mirror and brushed her hair, calming herself, pushing aside
the flood of speculation that sprang to mind. She changed into a
short-sleeved evening dress, tied back her hair with a golden clasp, and
took a deep breath.

It was always important to remember she was a princess.

‘There is civil war in Nagarythe.’

Hellebron stared open-mouthed at her father at this announcement. She
shook her head, thinking she had misheard. Alandrian was sitting at the
head of the long dining-table, a fire burning in the grate behind him.
He stood and looked into the flames as he continued.

‘Prince Malekith has returned to Ulthuan from his travels in the North
and Morathi attempted to keep the throne from him.’ Alandrian talked
stiffly as if reciting from a letter. ‘I learned this only yesterday,
and the news itself is many days old. The ship’s captain who brought it
to me says that Malekith has entered Anlec, and Morathi is to be taken
to the Phoenix King’s court and charged with treason.’

Hellebron laughed, long and hard; so long that tears rolled down her
cheeks and she had to hold on to the edge of the table to keep herself
upright. All the while, Alandrian looked at his daughter with confusion.
Eventually Hellebron regained some modicum of control.

‘Morathi is to be tried by Bel Shanaar and the other princes?’ Hellebron
laughed again, imagining the queen’s humiliation. ‘This is wondrous
news, wondrous news indeed!’

Her father did not see any humour in the situation.

‘Nagarythe is tearing itself apart,’ said the prince. ‘There are
factions still loyal to Morathi fighting against the followers of
Malekith.’

Hellebron settled again, mind suddenly alive with possibilities.

‘These troubles will spread to Athel Toralien,’ she said. ‘You were
Prince Malekith’s lieutenant. It was the prince who handed control of
the city to you. The cults owe their allegiance to the lapdogs of
Morathi, puppets of masters in Anlec these past years. Your enemies will
see this as an opportunity to remove you.’

‘This has occurred to me,’ Alandrian said, sitting down again. He waved
Hellebron to sit next to him and laid a gauntleted hand on the table in
front of her, an imploring gesture. ‘I have a new proposal for you.’

‘Ask anything, father.’ Hellebron smiled sweetly, hope rising in her
heart. ‘Anything at all.’

Hellebron had to wait for two more years while her father manoeuvred and
politicked in Athel Toralien, slowly replacing or moving officials known
to be adherents to the other cults, promoting army officers loyal to him
alone, currying favour with the other princes of the city and making
secret pacts with the most powerful merchants.

When all was ready, a mounted guard of honour came to collect Hellebron.
Lirieth was with them and the sisters shared an emotional reunion, with
many tears of joy and embraces. After so much time, now that she was so
close to achieving the dominion she craved, the ride to Athel Toralien
seemed an eternity to Hellebron. Her father was about to hand her the
city like a sweetmeat on a platter, and still Hellebron’s thoughts were
full of grander designs. Control of Athel Toralien was not the summit of
her ambition; that lay across the ocean in Anlec, and with Morathi
imprisoned by the Phoenix King in Tor Anroc, there would never be a
better time.

In the late summer afternoon, the city was bathed in sunlight, and
Hellebron was filled with energy at the sight. Light sparkled from
golden towers and silver roofs, bright against the clear sky. She looked
at the high walls to the city that had been denied her for so long, and
imagined the people of Athel Toralien going about their lives without an
inkling of what was about to befall them.

Her thoughts turned to her rivals, the priests and priestesses of the
other sects, who had no doubt laughed at her incarceration and joked
with each other about the ill fate of the Brides of Khaine. Soon they
would learn how dire was the price for denying Khaine, as would any that
opposed His return to glory.

As they entered the city, Hellebron was immediately aware of a subdued
atmosphere. Everywhere she looked there were soldiers; no doubt the
citizens of Athel Toralien had noticed their increasing numbers over the
preceding days.

Several princes were waiting inside the gate, their royal guards drawn
up around them. Hellebron recognised Malriad and a couple more; the
other three were unknown to her, princes from Nagarythe who had fled
Ulthuan during the last years of Morathi’s reign.

Maenredil was there too, wearing the crest of a commander. Lirieth waved
at her former lover, who smiled in return and called his companies to
attention. They lowered their spears in salute as Hellebron and Lirieth
rode past, much to the sisters’ amusement.

Alandrian waited for them at the centre of the square inside the gate.
He was dressed in his finest armour, long cloak trailing over the rump
of his horse, a golden shield on his arm. He looked every part the
prince he was, and it was with a surge of pride that Hellebron bowed her
head to her father and reined in her steed beside him.

‘This will not go without some effort,’ said Alandrian. ‘Our
preparations have not gone entirely unnoticed. Your mother suspects
something is amiss and has called a rally of the people in the market.
At the last count there were more than a thousand listening to her
endless speeches.’

‘What of Anellion and the other cult leaders?’ asked Lirieth.

‘They have been gathering their followers to the temples, suspicious of
the activity. They cannot truly suspect what we have planned.’

Hellebron looked around at the assembled soldiers and then at her
father.

‘When do we start?’ she asked.

Flames lit the city, pushing back the night. The whole temple quarter
was burning, and the screams of those trapped in the temples echoed with
the crackling of the blaze. The crash of fighting had died down from its
earlier climax, as bands of Khainites and soldiers hunted down the last
of the other cultists.

Hellebron and Lirieth had led the attacks, bursting into the temples
with spear and blade to cut down all opposition. Many of the meeker
cultists had surrendered and were now being led in long lines to the
square outside the temple of Khaine. This time Hellebron would not make
the mistake of despatching all her sacrifices in a single night; there
were enough prisoners to last for a good while if she was able to temper
her followers’ enthusiasm.

The Brides of Khaine were outside the temple of Anath Raema watching the
adepts of the Vengeful Huntress being dragged from their shrine. Lirieth
laughed as one of the older priests stumbled and fell flat on his face.
The soldiers heaved him up and hauled him along the street, his feet
dragging on the paving.

The clatter of hooves announced the arrival of Maenredil. The commander
looked aggrieved as he dismounted.

‘Is there something amiss?’ asked Hellebron.

‘That is one way of saying it,’ said Maenredil. He cast about
uncomfortably for a moment before he fixed on Lirieth. ‘It is your
mother. She has led a march on your father’s villa and is demanding that
the purge be ended.’

‘So?’ said Hellebron. ‘Ignore her.’

Maenredil switched his gaze to her, resignation written across his face.

‘It is not so simple. She has several thousand people with her. Her
defiance is a challenge to your father; open opposition to his
rulership. She is demanding that he surrender his reign to her.’

‘Then our father should deal with her,’ said Lirieth. ‘Why is it our
concern?’

‘You have been away a long time,’ said Maenredil. ‘The situation in the
cult of Khaine has… changed.’

‘What do you mean?’

Maenredil flinched at the harshness of Hellebron’s question. The
commander took a breath.

‘With both of you out of the city, Prince Malriad took it upon himself
to become our leader. There are many that are still loyal to you,
including him, but if you wish to come back as our leaders, there are
opponents within the cult who must be swayed. Your mother’s open
insolence gives weight to their arguments that you are not strong enough
to lead. For the moment Malriad has them under control, but if nothing
is done, you will be abandoned as being too weak. They say that your
father will not be ruler forever, and that without him you will be
unable to protect them.’

Lirieth sighed while Hellebron snarled a curse.

‘We will deal with this,’ said Hellebron. ‘Find us horses and we will
ride with you to see this mob.’

Mirieth’s influence had grown considerably during her daughters’
absence. A staunch critic of the cults for many years, she had seized
upon her husband’s ban to gain wide support for her movement. Many were
tired of the cults and their leaders, and thousands had left their homes
to join Mirieth in this protest.

As Hellebron and the others rode into the square, Mirieth was standing
in front of a line of spearmen stretching across the gate to Alandrian’s
palace. Alandrian waited on a balcony beyond the wall, surrounded by his
supporters. There were several sporting the accoutrements of Khainite
priests – faces that Hellebron didn’t recognise. They were usurpers,
their power built upon the endeavours of Hellebron and Lirieth.

The followers of Mirieth stood in silent protest; people from all walks
of life and all parts of the city. A short distance away Hellebron’s
followers glowered at the protesters, blades in hand, as they stood over
the cultists taken prisoner. These Khainites gave a cheer as the sisters
appeared. Hellebron looked up at the dignitaries with Alandrian and
noted their scowls of displeasure. It was obvious that this minor
insurrection within the cult was not to their liking.

Mirieth turned as the Brides of Khaine dismounted. For a moment,
Hellebron could not decipher the look on her mother’s face. Then
realisation slowly dawned: it was pity. Pity born out of love, no doubt,
but a stinging insult to Hellebron’s pride. Pity was for the weak. It
had not been pity that had sent Aenarion to the Blighted Isle to take up
the Sword of Khaine. It had not been pity that had driven Malekith to
save this city from the orcs. Pity was an affectation of the lesser
kingdoms and it had no place in the heart of a Naggarothi.

The two sisters approached Mirieth slowly, wary of some trap. The mood
of the crowd changed, their sullenness becoming anger as the architects
of the purge came closer. Hellebron and Lirieth stared them down,
matching the crowd’s anger with their own. The quiet, simmering rage of
the Toralii that the sisters had once used for themselves was now turned
on the Brides of Khaine.

‘I know that you have no love for me, but listen to what I have to say,’
said Mirieth. Hellebron stopped a pace from her mother and glared.
Mirieth met that hate-filled gaze without fear, her pale blue eyes
unwavering as she studied her daughter’s face. Mirieth’s eyes glistened,
hinting at tears held in check. ‘It is time for this madness to stop.’

‘And you think you have the power to stop it?’ said Lirieth.

Mirieth turned to the crowd and raised her arms, silence following
swiftly.

‘Our homeland is divided,’ she said to them, but the words were directed
at her daughters, and their father watching from above. ‘Nagarythe
teeters on the brink of destruction, not by the machinations of others,
but brought about by our own selfishness. We have forgotten the lessons
left to us by Aenarion. Before he took up the Widowmaker, Aenarion
offered himself to the other gods and they rejected him. Only when he
sacrificed his life in the Flames of Asuryan did the gods listen.’

Now Mirieth turned back to Hellebron and Lirieth, but her voice was
still pitched to carry across the square.

‘Aenarion did not sacrifice himself for the glory of Khaine. Aenarion
sacrificed himself for the survival of our people. It was to banish
death and misery that he laid down his life. It was out of love for all
elves, Naggarothi and others, that Aenarion took up the Blade of the
Blood Prince, knowing the doom he brought upon himself. It was to banish
anarchy, dispel dis-harmony, that Aenarion turned to Khaine, as the last
choice. It was in anger and grief that he became the Bloody-Handed
King.’

Mirieth extended two imploring hands towards her daughters. She fell to
her knees while tears streamed down her face.

‘It is with love, not hate, that I tell you this. Do not let Khaine
claim your spirits. He will devour you, and through you devour us all.
You still have a choice, to change direction and tread upon a path of
light rather than walk the dark roads of death. Your ambitions are
fleeting, for all mortals must die eventually, no matter how grand their
status or how vast their army.

‘And when you are dead, how shall you be remembered? As heralds of
strife? As kinslayers and murderers? Even Aenarion, in the fiercest grip
of Khaine, never raised his sword against another elf. Nagarythe is in
turmoil; let Athel Toralien become a beacon of peace and hope, a new
Anlec. Let your legacy be one of harmony, of understanding, of love.’

Hellebron stood over her mother and laid a hand on her shoulder. She
looked over to her followers, who waited like beasts about to pounce.
Her gaze passed over Mirieth’s followers, many of them in tears, fear
written on the faces of others.

Last, she looked up to her father’s palace. Alandrian stared down with
arms crossed, his face an expressionless mask. Around him the chief
Khainites sneered and glared, contemptuous of Hellebron and her sister.

Hellebron knelt in front of Mirieth. She raised her mother’s face and
placed a kiss on each of her cheeks. Leaning close, she whispered in
Mirieth’s ear.

‘It is too late for peace,’ said Hellebron. ‘If I do not do this,
another will. Better to rule with Khaine’s blessing, than serve without
it.’

Hellebron surged upright, dragging Mirieth with her. Her dagger flashed.
Blood spilled from her mother’s throat. Letting Mirieth’s body fall to
the ground, Hellebron held aloft the bloodied knife and stalked towards
the wailing crowd, Lirieth at her heel. Some turned to run, others
defiantly held their ground but cowered back when Hellebron was a few
steps from them.

‘Khaine has come to Athel Toralien,’ she snarled. ‘You have a choice.
Accept Khaine as your patron and give your life to Him, or deny Him and
give your deaths instead!’

Hellebron whirled around and pointed her dagger at the senior Khainites
and her father.

‘I have just killed my mother for the glory of Khaine. I did it swiftly
and with love. Any other elf that stands in my path will not be so
fortunate!’

The followers of the Brides of Khaine fell upon the protesters like a
hungry pack. Screams echoed around the square as the elves fled from the
Khainites. On the balcony above, Alandrian had withdrawn, leaving the
Khainite priests looking down nervously at the carnage below.

Lirieth and Hellebron lifted up their blades and cried out in unison,
knowing the city was theirs.

‘Praise Khaine!’
