
NINETEEN 

A Deadly Dance

As Caledor had predicted, the druchii lacked the strength for an all-out
assault across Ulthuan. Refusing the pitched battle that Malekith needed
for victory, the Phoenix King and the princes allied to him were able to
temper the druchii offensives whilst minimising their losses. Sometimes
Caledor took the initiative, probing at the passes between Nagarythe and
Ellyrion, sending expeditions to make joint raids with the Anars across
the border with Chrace. Always Caledor tried to goad his foe into a rash
move, but the Witch King was too canny a general to split his forces or
over extend his advances.

This duel of armies continued for several years as the druchii tested
the resolve of the Phoenix King and his followers. Towns were burned and
populaces driven out, but as soon as the army of Nagarythe was drawn
elsewhere, Caledor would visit the devastated regions, showing unity
with the people he ruled.

The Phoenix King remembered the question asked of him by Mianderin and
knew that he had been afraid of fully becoming the ruler of Ulthuan. He
had shunned his responsibilities, choosing to focus on the weaknesses of
his allies rather than his own deficiencies as king.

Though still short of temper and curt of tongue, Caledor endeavoured not
only to lead by example but to encourage those around him. In battle he
was implacable, striking hard from the back of Maedrethnir, always at
the forefront of the fighting. In the times when retreat was necessary
he was there also, his presence bolstering the resolve of those whose
homes would be burned, displaying his defiance for all to see.

As Caledor was the inspiration for Ulthuan’s defenders, Malekith was the
driving force of the Naggarothi. None could match him in battle, for
strength or sorcery. On occasion he would ride forth with Morathi and
they would sweep all before them; Malekith with his disciplined
veterans, Morathi with her wild cultists. The Witch King alone was worth
ten companies of spears, and when he rode Sulekh to battle there was not
an army to match him.

Four years after Malekith’s return, the summer was long and dry. The
army of Nagarythe was encamped on the banks of the River Ilientath that
bordered Chrace and Avelorn, and looked poised to strike into Cothique
once again. Tiranoc was under druchii control, its defences much
improved under the regime of the Witch King. Caledor mustered his army
in Saphery, hoping to lure the Witch King into the kingdom of the mages,
while ready to sail across the Inner Sea to Avelorn to come at
Malekith’s advance from the rear. For the whole of the summer the two
armies camped, separated by no more than ten days’ marching; for the
whole of the summer neither the Witch King nor the Phoenix King was
willing to show his true intent.

As had been agreed in the pact between Caledor and his princes, Koradrel
had left Chrace when the druchii had launched their latest attack. No
prince was allowed to remain in an assaulted kingdom, lest they fall in
battle or, worse, be taken prisoner and turned against their allies.
Though many had never expected to become rulers, under Caledor the
princes of Ulthuan had formed a close bond with each other, and the
petty rivalries of the past had been forgotten, overshadowed by the
common threat of the Naggarothi.

Caledor spent the hot afternoon relaxing alone in his pavilion, having
invited his Chracian cousin to dine with him that evening. Riders and
dragons patrolled the northern reaches of Saphery, ready to bring word
of any movement from the enemy, and the Phoenix King was content that
all was in order. Wary of complacency, he had spent the morning
reviewing the dispositions of his forces, but could find no weakness
that might be exploited by the Witch King.

The heat of the summer and a long, tense battle of wills had taken their
toll on Caledor’s stamina. Having removed his armour, he dozed in his
throne clad only in a loose robe of white, embroidered with the phoenix
flames of Asuryan. He half-heard the shouts of the captains as they
drilled their companies on the parade ground at the centre of the camp.
There were clatters of plates and goblets as his servants prepared the
adjoining chamber for the evening’s meal.

Still feel drowsy, the Phoenix King roused himself at the arrival of
Koradrel and a few of his Chracian princes. Servants came in with trays
of wine jugs and goblets, though Caledor ordered water be brought for
him, fearing his thirst would make him drink too much.

The group moved to the banquet, which consisted of the finest fare
Saphery had to offer. Caledor took little part in the idle conversation,
content to allow the Chracians to swap well-worn hunting stories and
gossip from Tor Achare. More wine flowed and a heated debate erupted as
the princes argued over who had slain the most foes.

The evening had begun to cool the air and Caledor suggested that the
party move outside. He had eaten little, as usual, but his guests
appeared uninterested in the suggestion. Their earlier animation had
dwindled and the Phoenix King noticed that Koradrel and the others were
sluggish, their speech slurred. Acharion, one of Koradrel’s nephews,
attempted a toast but stumbled as he stood, eventually collapsing to the
ground, face red and swollen.

‘Poison!’ hissed Caledor, slapping the goblet from Koradrel’s hand as he
raised it to his lips.

The Chracian ruler reacted slowly, turning his head with a confused
expression.

‘You spilled my drink, cousin,’ he said, brow knotted, hand still
halfway to his lips.

‘The wine, it has been tainted,’ said Caledor.

The Phoenix King turned to the three servants who stood at the far end
of the table.

‘Fetch the healers,’ he demanded. ‘Who brought the wine?’

None of the servants answered. At first Caledor thought they had sneaked
a sample of their master’s cask, but the notion was dispelled as all
three reached into their robes and drew forth curved daggers. The
Phoenix King saw the red glint of Khainite runes and the sheen of poison
on the blades as the three advanced, two to his left and one to his
right.

‘Assassins!’ roared Caledor, snatching up a carving knife from the
carcass of a fowl.

The one to the right came first, blade flashing for Caledor’s throat.
The Phoenix King ducked and lunged, his weapon passing harmlessly across
the assassin’s chest as the elf stepped back. Caledor dropped and rolled
to his right to avoid an attack from his left, sending a side table
laden with fruit flying as he surged to his feet, the carving knife
ringing against a dagger aimed at his gut.

Heart hammering, Caledor leapt onto the table, scattering dishes and
plates, shards of broken crockery punching into his feet through his
thin boots. The assassins broke apart, quickly surrounding him. Turning
left and then right quickly, trying to keep all three in view, Caledor
side-stepped to the foot of the table, towards the doorway.

Koradrel rose groggily to his feet, swinging a fist at the nearest
assassin. The punch connected with the elf’s shoulder, sending him
reeling into the side of the pavilion. Distracted, the attacker trying
to circle behind Caledor was too slow as the Phoenix King whirled on his
heel and drove a booted foot into the assassin’s face. The assassin
snarled, blood dripping to his lip, and leapt up to the table.

The carving knife met the assassin’s chest, punching through ribs into
lungs. The assassin’s momentum carried him into Caledor, knife blade
nicking the Phoenix King’s chin as the dying elf’s weight bore him down
into the serving dishes with a crash.

Pain flared along Caledor’s jaw. The wound had been minute, but the
poison on the blade spread quickly, seizing the king’s tongue and
throat. He gasped for breath as he pushed the assassin’s body from him
and rolled off the table a moment before another dagger plunged into the
wood.

There were shouts from the doorway as Caledor staggered towards it. The
carving knife was still in the chest of the dead assassin and he was
unarmed. He watched helplessly as the attacker floored by Koradrel
jumped back to his feet and plunged his knife into the Chracian prince’s
eye. Koradrel made no sound as he toppled backwards, head bouncing off
the edge of a chair.

The Phoenix King felt like he was drowning. With a flailing arm he
managed to seize a lamp from its chain and hurl it at the closest
assassin, sending burning oil splashing across his attacker’s arm. His
chest was growing tighter and tighter and his throat was raw. Dizziness
made the pavilion spin and he was only dimly aware of shapes rushing
past. They looked like beasts of the Annulii, white-furred with massive
silver claws. Every breath rasping, Caledor managed to stagger out into
the main part of the pavilion where more of the pale creatures were
dashing in. He fell to his knees, choking, tasting blood.

Hands grabbed him and lifted him bodily into his throne. Another shape
appeared and Caledor heard a calming whisper, though he did not
comprehend the words being said. He felt hands on his face and warmth
replace the chill in his limbs. There was a golden light. He reached a
hand towards it and felt soft skin.

‘Rest,’ said the quiet voice.

Caledor dimly recognised it as belonging to Thyriol. He slipped into a
sleep, dreaming of bright meadows, though the skies above were tainted
by storm clouds.

The attempt on Caledor’s life sent the army into turmoil. While the
Phoenix King was caught up in a deep fever, Thyriol took charge,
organising a thorough search of the camp. The bodies of three servants
were found hidden in a copse of trees close to the river where the army
took its water. Worse still, when the assassins were examined, they
seemed identical to those elves that had been killed. Thyriol dispelled
an enchantment that had been cast upon them and their faces reverted to
their own, revealing the pale, harsh features of Naggarothi, cut with
runes of disguise.

Distrust and paranoia ruled, verging on panic. All in the camp were
potential suspects and new watch rotas were drawn up. Soldiers were
swapped between companies and all were commanded to go about their
duties in groups of at least ten. Thyriol enacted a curfew between dusk
and dawn, save for the guard patrols which were reinforced to
thirty-strong parties drawn from the White Lions and the Phoenix Guard,
who were reckoned the most loyal warriors of all.

Scouts returned the next day, reporting that the druchii had broken
camp. No doubt expecting the assassination to have succeeded, Malekith
was making his move. With Caledor incapacitated and the army in dread,
the princes quickly agreed that a retreat was the only option.
Determined that no advantage would be gained by a hasty rout, the
princes organised an orderly break of camp and a withdrawal southwards
to the shore of the Inner Sea. Thyriol despatched messenger hawks to the
Lothern fleet, asking for immediate help.

Attended to by healers and Thyriol, Caledor’s fever broke on the sixth
day, but he was still weak from the poison. He was coherent only in
brief snatches, but was able to add his endorsement to the princes’ plan
of retreat. The Naggarothi came east through the ruin of Avelorn,
marching hard for Saphery.

The princes had no choice but to split the army; to wait for enough
ships to evacuate all of the king’s warriors risked being caught by the
swiftly advancing army of Malekith. Thyriol took Caledor and a quarter
of the troops east, summoning the city of Saphethion to provide
sanctuary. Half of the army continued south, before crossing the
mountains into Yvresse. The remaining force, acting as a rearguard,
awaited the arrival of a fleet from Lothern.

Too few ships arrived to take all of the troops that had been left
behind. Tithrain, who had volunteered to remain as commander of the
rearguard, ordered that lots be drawn to find out who could embark. To
their credit, every elf in the small army refused, their commanders
passing on the message that they would all live together or die
together. Mindful of Caledor’s decree that no prince be slain or
captured, Tithrain was in two minds whether to remain with his troops or
leave with the ships.

Tithrain elected to stay, determined that he would not abandon his
people again. The army spent what time it had fortifying the shoreline.
Repeater bolt throwers were brought from the ships to create defensive
batteries, and every spare plank, mast and spar was used to construct
ramparts along the grassy dunes that lined the beaches. Trenches were
dug and filled with oil from the ships’ lanterns and stores, ready to be
set alight.

When the scouts reported that the druchii were only a day away, Tithrain
ordered a feast dedicated to Asuryan. All of the food left with the army
was cooked and prepared and the tables sagged with the weight of it,
brought out under the sun for the banquet. The prince of Cothique
laughed and joked, saying that he would rather such fine food was not
left to the Naggarothi, whose palates could not appreciate its quality.

Beneath the jollity was a current of fear. Smiles were strained and the
conversation purposefully light-hearted. Yet as the day wore into
evening, there were many in the army who set down to compose their death
poems, or sang mournful dirges, accompanied by sombre pipes and lyres.

As the soldiers settled down to sleep their final sleep, Tithrain walked
about the camp. There was an air of calm, the army resigned to its fate.
He walked to the shore and stared at the dark expanse of water, the
stars in the clear skies reflected in the rippling waters.

He was about to leave and return to his pavilion when he saw a light far
out from the shore. At first he took it to be a shooting star, as the
light seemed to move across the sky. Then another appeared, and another,
shining white and red and blue, and growing brighter as he watched.

Soon there was a swathe of bobbing stars, of every colour of the
rainbow. Tithrain wondered if he was asleep and dreaming. A shout from
the warships at anchor not far from the beach attracted his attention.

‘Sail to the west!’ The cry was taken up from every masthead.

In the moonlight and glow of their lamps, a flotilla of small vessels
approached the shore. Fishing boats and traders, coastal barges and
oar-propelled scows appeared out of the darkness. There were dozens of
them, and even more lights were coming nearer.

Something blotted out the stars above and Tithrain caught the
distinctive crack of a dragon’s wing beats. The monster dropped down to
the beach, the draught of its landing kicking up a storm of sand.
Tithrain stared in surprise at the golden-armoured figure upon its back.

‘Stop staring and rouse your troops,’ the Phoenix King shouted down to
the stunned prince. ‘There is no time to waste.’

As the word spread through the camp and the small ships beached to take
on as many warriors as they could, their crews explained that Caledor
had been racing up and down the Sapherian coast, entreating every
village and town to put any ship it could claim onto the water. The
larger vessels towed small boats, some of them holding only half a dozen
elves, and it was a slow process to bring them up to the beach, which
was not large enough for the boats all to land at the same time.

Dawn was tinging the horizon and the blaring of the druchii horns could
be heard. There were still nearly two thousand warriors to embark.
Naedrein, a captain of Cothique who had survived the Khainite purges,
approached Tithrain and Caledor.

‘My company will man the bolt throwers,’ he said. ‘We will hold back the
druchii and give the others time to get away.’

‘You will not survive,’ replied Caledor. ‘Are you sure you wish to do
this?’

‘We are sworn to it,’ said Naedrein. ‘All of us lost loved ones to the
druchii scum. We consider a score requires settling.’

‘It is an honour to have such warriors fighting with me,’ said Tithrain.
‘Hold them for as long as you can, and watch for Malekith. He will make
short work of the defences if you allow him to approach.’

‘If we are lucky, we might even kill that accursed dragon of his,’ said
the captain.

He raised his sword in salute, the gesture returned by the prince and
king, and marched away.

‘Kill as many as you can!’ Caledor called after him.

Naedrein and his warriors were as good as their word. While the sun was
still rising, the sound of the bolt throwers was carried along the
shore.

‘Perhaps we should help them,’ Maedrethnir said to Caledor. ‘Those elves
will not hold back Malekith for long.’

‘If we fight the Witch King, we will die,’ Caledor replied. ‘That cannot
happen.’

‘You consider yourself too important to risk battle?’ said the dragon, a
note of disapproval in his deep voice.

‘That is one reason,’ said Caledor.

‘And the other?’ asked Maedrethnir.

‘I have no desire to die,’ the Phoenix King admitted. ‘Not without good
purpose.’

The dragon rumbled with laughter and took to the air, carrying Caledor
up to where he could see the advancing druchii and his own followers.
The last of the small vessels were sailing away and the remaining troops
were being shuttled to the warships by boat. It was clear that the last
of them would be aboard before the druchii reached the shore, but the
Inner Sea was no barrier to the Witch King and his mount. There was
still considerable harm that could be suffered.

Looking at the enemy army, the Phoenix King realised his concerns were
misplaced. Malekith held back, the dark shape of his dragon looming
behind the massed ranks of infantry that advanced on the beach, wary of
the bolt throwers.

‘I am not the only one that wishes to live,’ Caledor remarked.

The assassination attempt and subsequent retreat shook the confidence of
the princes and Caledor had to work hard to keep them sworn to his
strategy. The loss of Koradrel was also a bitter, personal blow. So far
the druchii had claimed Caledor’s brother and two of his cousins, as
well as a number of more distant family from Caledor and other kingdoms.
A memorial was held for the dead Chracian prince, and his body interred
in the mausoleum at Lothern until Chrace could again be secured.

There was no obvious successor to wield Achillar, and Caledor feared
that infighting over the rulership of Chrace would bring more turmoil.
It was with some surprise that he received a visit from the most
powerful claimants, all three distant cousins of the Phoenix King. They
presented Caledor with an agreement that they had all signed, along with
many other nobles of Chrace, nominating Caledor to be bestowed the title
of regent in the absence of any clear claimant. The Phoenix King duly
accepted, and just as swiftly chose Thuriantis, the oldest cousin, to be
his representative in Tor Achare.

‘If only we could all be so pragmatic,’ remarked Thyriol when Caledor
related this meeting to the mage at the next gathering of the council.

The attack in Saphery was only the first of several such incidents over
the following years. Ambushes were laid to waylay Caledor as he
travelled between the kingdoms, and there were more attempts to poison
him. Despite every precaution the guile of the Khainite killers, and
Malekith’s determination to see the Phoenix King slain, meant that he
was in constant danger. The cults, though much diminished in size and
power, still had their agents and networks, and the only place Caledor
felt truly safe was on the back of Maedrethnir or during his infrequent
returns to Tor Caled.

Another leader might have been cowed by the incessant threat, growing
paranoid. Caledor refused to let the enemy dictate his movements and
actions, and though ever watchful for the next attempt on his life, the
Phoenix King would not be driven into hiding nor give over his direct
command of the army to another.

Not only physical attacks threatened Caledor. For a whole winter he was
plagued with nightmares and headaches. Fearing sorcery, he summoned
Thyriol, who confirmed that a curse had been laid upon the Phoenix King.
The mage wove counter-enchantments and brought forth talismans from the
vaults of Saphethion to protect Caledor against these hexes.

There were less subtle magical assaults as well. During a crossing from
Ellyrion to Saphery, Caledor’s ship was engulfed by a devastating storm.
The sky boiled black and lightning rent the darkness. The Inner Sea was
whipped to a frenzy, waves as tall as houses crashing over the prow of
the hawkship as it was flung about by the howling winds. Dozens of crew
were washed away, but the steersmen bound themselves to the wheel and
the captain lashed himself beside them, guiding their hands.

For what seemed like several days the storm continued, cracking the mast
and ripping up the decking. The sailors worked tirelessly, cutting away
debris and patching the holes in the hull, barely keeping the ship
seaworthy. ­Eventually the storm abated, its fury spent, and the ship
limped to Lothern. The crew bailed day and night to keep the vessel from
sinking, and even Caledor took his turns, using the fabled war-helm of
the Phoenix King as a pail.

Each brush with death served only to increase Caledor’s determination.
It was noticed by others that when vexed he would rub the scar left on
his chin by the assassin’s blade, and they knew to offer no further
argument against their king at that time. The hottest days of summer
sometimes brought the king to the brink of fever, the effects of the
poison never being wholly eliminated.

Despite these frequent distractions, Caledor was always attentive to
every detail of the war. Every trick and ploy, every advance, feint and
counter-move by Malekith met with failure. Ten years and more since the
Witch King’s first attack, victory was no closer for either side.

Those years had seen the fortunes of both Malekith and Caledor wax and
wane, but as the Phoenix King had foreseen, the longer the war dragged
on, the more it turned against the druchii. The enemy lacked the numbers
to hold any ground they took, and in Nagarythe the continuing shadow war
of Alith Anar took a slow but steady toll. Tiranoc became the favoured
battleground of both sides, a contested region that acted as a barrier
between Nagarythe and Caledor. Slowly, with each cautious campaign, the
Phoenix King’s armies cut away at the druchii forces. Eagle Pass was
retaken and the keeps built by the druchii were garrisoned by troops
loyal to Caledor. Griffon Pass fell to the Phoenix King in the following
year, and Unicorn Pass in the next.

Caledor almost went too far in his attempts to seize Dragon Pass; a
swift and deadly counter-attack by Malekith almost caught the Phoenix
King’s army, which was pursued halfway across Avelorn before the Witch
King relented, fearing he was being lured from Nagarythe as part of some
grander scheme.

In the twenty-fifth year of his reign, after two and half decades of
war, Caledor once more called his council to the Isle of the Flame. The
princes were filled with apprehension as the Phoenix King entered; it
had been several years since he had brought them all to this place.

‘We are winning the war,’ the Phoenix King declared as he sat on his
throne, though his expression was grim rather than jubilant. The council
members exchanged confused glances, unsure what this meant. ‘Our armies
are blooded and our tactics well tested. The druchii are weary,
labouring out of fear of their rulers. Now we strike.’

‘For Anlec?’ asked Dorien, making no attempt to hide his joy.

‘For Anlec,’ Caledor replied.

Caledor’s plan was a simple one, which he considered the best kind. Late
in the spring, he launched another attack into Tiranoc, reclaiming Tor
Anroc from the druchii. On this occasion he did not stay in the city,
but drove northwards, driving the druchii before him. By midsummer he
came to the Naganar, the fast-flowing river that separated Tiranoc from
Nagarythe. Here he made a great show of camping his army, marching east
and west as if looking for a suitable crossing. On the opposite bank,
the Naggarothi shadowed his movements, ready to contest any crossing he
might make.

The manoeuvres were a subterfuge. While the druchii had retreated,
Caledor despatched parts of his army eastwards, replacing them in camp
with fresh recruits, and even elves too young or old to fight dressed in
fake armour and given hastily-made spears. Dorien took command of this
force – from any distance two gold-clad riders on red dragons were
indistinguishable – and Caledor flew across the mountains in secret. It
was a tremendous gamble, the only one Caledor had ever taken. If
Malekith had any hint of the deception, he would be able to sweep across
the Naganar and destroy the false army, and continue south into Caledor.

The true army mustered in northern Ellyrion, every soldier and knight
from each of the allied kingdoms marching and sailing to the border with
Avelorn. Beneath their banners they gathered. Spearmen and archers,
Silver Helm knights alongside reavers from Ellyrion, mages and princes;
the Phoenix Guard of Asuryan came from the Isle of the Flame and the
White Lions led the Chracian host. The sight of the gathered army filled
Caledor with trepidation. All of his strength was brought here, enough
in his reckoning to take the Witch King unawares and smash his army, but
if not the last of Ulthuan’s strength would be spent.

If he was victorious, the road to Anlec would be open. If he had judged
wrongly, there would be no force in Ulthuan that could stop the Witch
King. For the first time since walking into the sacred flames, the
Phoenix King said a prayer to Asuryan. When he was finished, he gave the
signal for the army to march, heading north to Phoenix Pass. He hoped
the name was a good omen.

For good or bad, this would be the last battle of the war.

‘You would leave Anlec defenceless.’ Morathi’s shrill protest jarred
Malekith’s nerves. ‘An army camps on our border and you would have our
troops simply leave them.’

‘It is a ruse,’ said Malekith.

He waved a hand and a glimmering image of northern Ulthuan appeared in
the air in front of his huge throne. It was more than a map, it was a
picture of the region, every river glittering as a thin line, every road
and field, farmhouse and ditch recreated in minute detail.

‘If Imrik intended to attack, he would not have paused at the Naganar,
but would have pressed straight across while the defences were weakest,’
the Witch King explained.

‘Why are you so sure that he attacks from the east?’ said Morathi,
poking a finger through the hovering apparition of Nagarythe. ‘Why
Phoenix Pass?’

‘Your memory is short, mother,’ Malekith replied calmly. ‘Do you not
recall, when I retook Anlec?’

Morathi’s only reply was a spat curse.

‘You were wrong then, and I was victorious,’ said Malekith, enjoying his
mother’s indignant expression. His humour faded as he considered the
impudence of Imrik. ‘The upstart thinks he can trick me with the
strategy I devised? No, that will not happen. I will remind him of his
folly as he begs for my forgiveness.’

‘So what do you plan to do?’ Morathi glared at the gently drifting
image. ‘Call the army back to Anlec. It is the best course of action.’

‘Again, that served you so well,’ laughed Malekith.

‘The treacherous Anars were the only reason you took Anlec from me,’
Morathi snapped.

‘Who can say that they will not do the same again?’ said the Witch King.
His voice turned harsh. ‘Is not my crown upon the head of Alith Anar,
stolen from this palace while you looked on? Your cultists are worthless
as warriors, and worth even less as guards.’

Morathi stalked away, hair and gown billowing like a storm cloud.

‘Here,’ Malekith whispered to himself, pointing a burning figure at a
stretch of barren land between Anlec and Phoenix Pass. It was perfect.
Marshes bounded it to the north, while any army trying to escape south
would come against the cold waters of the Lianarrin River. ‘Here is
where I will wait for you, Imrik. At Maledor.’
