
TEN 

Lothern Attacked

As Carathril opened the door to the winehouse, swirls of fragrance-laden
smoke drifted out into the street. He waved for Aerenis to precede him
inside and then entered, closing the door behind him. It was quiet, as
was to be expected in the middle of the day, with only a few patrons
gathered at a table close to the fire. Carathril recognised them as
members of the Palace Watch, again without surprise as this particular
wine room was used almost exclusively by members of the princes’ guard.
One of them, Myrthreir, raised a hand in welcome and beckoned the pair
over to the padded bench on which he sat.

‘The new Fierean deep red has just finished settling,’ said another of
the soldiers, Khalinir, as they joined the group. He proffered his glass
towards Carathril. ‘Try some, it is very fruity.’

Carathril accepted the crystal goblet and took a sip of the wine. It was
delicately scented with rose, and was of a fuller flavour than he
usually liked but not unpleasant.

‘Palatable,’ said Carathril with an equivocal look,

He offered the glass to Aerenis.

‘I think I will stay loyal to my Sapherian Gold until the winter grape
season comes around,’ he said, waving away the goblet.

An attendant with long fair hair bound in a single plait down her back
made her way over to the table and Carathril ordered a bottle of his
favourite wine. Aerenis asked for water.

‘I heard Hythreir’s Dissertation on Cynics last night,’ said Khalinir.
‘He was performing in the Sapphire Plaza. It was a touch sentimental, if
you ask me, but it seemed to get the crowd going, what with all that
talk about Aenarion and such. Then again, that is Hythreir, always one
for popularity over pedigree.’

‘I thoroughly enjoyed his Musings of a Lothern Trader,’ said Fithuren
from the far end of the table. ‘Of course, that was before Malekith
returned. His humour has changed dramatically, and I do not appreciate
some of the darker elements he now uses in his compositions. It seems
that he has been getting more and more caught up with his own woes for
these last years. One would think that he was the only elf in Lothern
with worries and cares, the way he stands there and laments in Opal
Square sometimes.’

‘It is enough that we must deal with these accursed cults when we are on
duty, I do not want to hear about them endlessly when I set down my
spear,’ said Myrthreir. ‘The prince issues proclamation after
proclamation, and yet still there are those blind enough to flock to
these demagogues and rabble-rousers. Only five days ago, we found a nest
of Athartists posing as an embroidery guild in Callhan. I tell you, when
we found what they had been picturing with their needles, it sent a
shiver down my spine. One of them almost took my eye out with his
fingernails, if you believe that.’

‘You sent them away?’ asked Aerenis.

‘Of course we did,’ replied Fithuren. ‘Until the prince orders
otherwise, we send them under escort to Amil Annanian. I hear that
another ship left this morning, with nearly two hundred of the depraved
souls on board. More than fifty are being tended to by the priests of
Ereth Khial.’

‘If it means that we do not spill as much blood as we might, then I see
no harm in it,’ said Aerenis.

‘They seem tame enough, once captured,’ said Mythreir.

‘Most are normal folk,’ said Aerenis. ‘Some simply want answers or
escape, or sympathy. For my part, I do not see the harm in much of what
they do. In Nagarythe, I hear, there are blood sacrifices and all manner
of bestial behaviour, but here in Lothern most of those we arrest are
nothing more than lost souls seeking a path.’

‘Their acts are forbidden, even if they do not directly harm others,’
said Myrthreir.

‘But why are they forbidden?’ asked Aerenis quietly. The serving maid
returned with their drinks and Aerenis took a sip of his water before
continuing. ‘The prince and his council decide that Hythreir’s poems and
performances are sound, whilst issuing decrees against writers such as
Elrondhir and Hythryst for being seditious and dangerous. Five years
ago, Elrondhir was court poet to Prince Haradrin, now he is a fugitive.’

Carathril had become accustomed to Aerenis’s morose moods since he had
returned to Lothern. It was a city he had found to be irrevocably
changed by the betrayal of Prince Aeltherin and the death of Prince
Haradrin, yet even now there were some in the guard and nobility who
refused to accept the danger posed by the dark cults.

Rumours and whispers persisted that Haradrin had entrapped Aeltherin in
some way, and it was to these conspiratorial allegations that Aerenis
now referred. Carathril had spoken many times with his friend concerning
the manner of Aeltherin’s demise and he knew it haunted Aerenis still,
as did the death of his sister’s friend, Glaronielle. The prince had
burned himself alive, along with his unconscious followers, and the
hideous scene still haunted all of those that had witnessed it. Though
Aerenis had never admitted as such, it was plain to Carathril that his
companion had harboured feelings for the girl he had mentioned; feelings
that perhaps he had never expressed to her while she lived.

Now Aerenis had become cold-hearted, turning ever more inwards in his
grief as the years had passed. He no longer joked with good humour, and
laughed only from bitterness. His company was rare, for he spent most of
his off-duty time with his own counsel; Carathril had never insulted his
friend by inquiring too deeply concerning where he hid himself away for
days at a time.

Lost in his musing, Carathril did not realise that he was being
addressed by Myrthreir.

‘Carathril?’ the royal guard said.

‘I am sorry, my thoughts were soaring elsewhere, like the eagles of the
mountains,’ Carathril said with a glance at Aerenis. If his friend
recollected that old conversation, he did not show it, but stared
silently into his glass.

‘I asked if the Sapphire Company was taking part in this expedition to
the mountains tomorrow,’ said Myrthreir.

‘Yes, I am leading the company to Hal Mentheon to meet with Captain
Fyrthril of the Ruby Company,’ said Carathril.

‘Hal Mentheon?’ Aerenis asked sharply. ‘You did not mention that
before.’

‘Why the concern?’ said Carathril.

‘It is the town where my sister lives,’ Aerenis explained. ‘I hope that
she is safe.’

‘We are mustering at Hal Mentheon, but our mission takes us inland to
the mountains, somewhere close to the Enullii Caith on the border of
Caledor,’ Carathril assured his friend. ‘I am sure that nothing is amiss
in the town, we would have heard otherwise from Fyrthril.’

‘Yes, you are probably right,’ muttered Aerenis, returning his gaze to
his water.

Carathril finished his goblet of wine and poured another, letting the
conversation of the others sweep over him, occasionally nodding in
agreement at some point or smiling at a witty comment. Aerenis excused
himself shortly before dusk, and though Carathril worried about his
friend, he was glad of the lightening of the mood that came with the
departure of his dour companion. As often happened these days, the talk
eventually meandered its way around to the subject of Nagarythe.

‘I heard from a Chracian merchant that the army of the Anars is besieged
in the citadel of Cauthis, just west of Griffon Pass,’ said Khalinir.

‘That is old news,’ scoffed Myrthreir. ‘Naggarothi fighting Naggarothi
can be no bad thing for us. I don’t know why the prince is so worried.
Nagarythe is furthest from Eataine. It’s not as if they could sneak
through Tiranoc and Ellyrion to attack us without warning, is it?’

Carathril remained silent. He had met Alith Anar and felt some sympathy
for those Naggarothi still loyal to the Phoenix Throne. Whatever the
fortunes of the coming war, Carathril knew in his heart that the Anars
would be forevermore caught between their loyalties. He was thankful
that they opposed Morathi. Myrthreir was right about one thing: Lothern
was about as far from the fighting as Carathril was likely to get
without heading for the colonies.

New recruits were being mustered and one day Carathril knew he would
have to march out again beneath the banner of Eataine. For the moment he
was content to leave the action and worries to others. Like many of his
fellows, his first concern was the safety of his prince and his people.
He would fight when ordered, but was trying to enjoy the relative peace
while it lasted.

Knowing that he was to march out with his company the following day,
Carathril made his excuses and left the winehouse while his willpower
and sobriety still allowed.

As he walked back to his quarters along the stone streets of Lothern, he
pondered that area of greyness between convivial leisure and the slide
into the depravities of the cults. To lose oneself utterly to sensation,
to cast aside the fears, doubts and anguishes of rational life was
forever a temptation to the elves. The joys of friendship and love were
unsurpassed, but so too did Carathril and his people suffer greatly from
the blackest depths of anger and woe.

Each walked a perilous path between agony and ecstasy, forever fighting
the restless spirit awakened within his heart by the coming of Aenarion;
the desire to fight and conquer, to ascend to pinnacles of sensation of
which only the elven mind and body were capable.

Carathril felt no such desire himself. His life had been eventful enough
and he craved the mundane and predictable as much as the cultists sought
stimulation and risk. Comfortable that he could still resist the lures
of his elven spirit, and lulled by the wine, Carathril fell asleep
relaxed and at peace.

Aerenis woke Carathril not long after daybreak, bringing him a tumbler
of fresh water from the barracks well and a small loaf of bread with a
pat of butter and a pot of glistening honey. Carathril’s lieutenant
seemed more at ease than he had the night before and the captain
remarked upon this.

‘I shall see my sister when we reach Hal Mentheon,’ Aerenis explained.
‘I have not seen her since summer last year, nor my cousins and nephews.
Remember, I am country-born, not a child of Lothern like you.’

‘Of course,’ said Carathril. ‘I have no family to miss, but I suppose
the city and its people are the closest I have to kin.’

The company was assembled for the march to Hal Mentheon and was soon
heading westwards from Lothern to meet up with soldiers from other parts
of Eataine. Situated between the Inner Sea and the outer coast of
Ulthuan, the kingdom was a beautiful spread of rolling hills and
farmlands, gradually rising to the west until it reached the foothills
of the Dragon Spine Mountains that marked the border with Caledor.

The one hundred elves made their way along a coastal road at a steady
pace, meadows and pastures to their right, shallow cliffs on their left
broken by winding paths and roadways leading down to many inlets and
beaches. The wind came off the sea, bringing with it salty air and
flurries of drizzle from the cloudy sky, but the march was not
unpleasant during the frequent breaks in which the sun shone down.

Past midday the company halted for a rest, above a small fishing village
nestled in the lee of a white chalk cliff that curved like a waning moon
around a green-watered bay. Most of the vessels were out, their white
sails and hulls seen against the dark of the sea. Food was unloaded from
the company’s supply wagons.

Carathril left the company and walked a short distance away to lean
against a white-painted stone wall marking the boundary of a farm. Arms
resting on the wall, spear and shield next to him, he looked out to the
sea and watched the birds flying around the cliff tops, their harsh
cries cutting the air above the crash of surf at the foot of the cliff
below him.

He moved his gaze further out to sea and looked at the horizon to the
south, enjoying the tranquillity of the flat blue expanse of the ocean.
Aerenis joined him, handing Carathril a wrapped parcel of bread and
cured meat before leaning his back against the wall.

‘It’s hard to believe there is anything amiss in Eataine on days like
this,’ said Carathril.

‘Perhaps there is nothing amiss,’ replied Aerenis. ‘Enjoy the peace for
what it is.’

‘If only it was so simple,’ said Carathril. He sighed and closed his
eyes, taking a deep breath of sea air and soaking in the warmth of the
sun. ‘There are enemies closer at hand than we realise. I cannot believe
Lothern is totally free of the cults, and the rest of Eataine surely
provides shelter for more.’

‘Do you wonder if perhaps enemies have been made of the cults when it
need not be so?’ said Aerenis.

‘What do you mean?’ said Carathril, turning to his friend.

‘There have been a few, like the Khainites, who have preyed on the
innocent, but most of them are harmless enough, surely?’ answered
Aerenis. ‘What if some of our people wish to lose themselves
occasionally in a pleasant fugue, or wish to converse with the spirits
of the dead? Is it worth the suffering it has brought to persecute these
people?’

‘It is a trap of the spirit,’ said Carathril. ‘It is the harm it does to
our culture, our society, which makes the worship of the cytharai a
malaise. You saw what had become of Prince Aeltherin. The cults impair
the judgement and erode the moral being of our people.’

‘And so you would have every cultist slain?’ said Aerenis. ‘Is that the
solution?’

‘I do not know,’ replied Carathril. ‘It seems inevitable that bloodshed
will settle this. The Naggarothi have stirred up their sycophants and
their agents, and the cults will respond by moving against the rule of
the princes and the Phoenix King. If they surrender peacefully, it could
be avoided.’

‘I detect the hint of arrogance with that approach,’ said Aerenis. ‘Why
are all the demands heaped upon the cultists? What attempts have ever
been made to help them, to incorporate their needs and desires into our
society? They have been branded outsiders, now criminals, and you wonder
why they disregard the authority of their princes?’

Not having any answer to that, Carathril turned back to the sea. Aerenis
was kind-hearted and forgiving, and he made a good point. Yet for all
the wrongs that the cultists might reasonably claim had been done to
them, Carathril could not forget the grisly scenes he had witnessed at
Ealith many years before, nor could he forget the beguiling power that
had tried to turn him to the service of the cytharai.

His eye roamed the waves without purpose as he considered Aerenis’s
words. Looking to the west, he spied a sail coming around the headland,
larger than that of a fishing boat. Concentrating, he saw a two-hulled
hawkship sailing into view, both its sails full in the wind, a
light-blue pennant streaming from its masthead.

Another followed, and another.

Surprised, Carathril watched the flotilla tacking into the bay. In all
there were eleven vessels, two of them mighty three-hulled dragonships,
their decks lined with elves.

‘What business has a Tiranocii fleet in Eataine?’ he said, glancing
towards Aerenis. His companion was staring at the fleet, his expression
one of shock and disbelief.

‘Your eyes are sharper than mine,’ said Aerenis, shielding his gaze from
the sun almost directly overhead. ‘I think I see soldiers aboard.’

Carathril returned his attention to the approaching ships. Looking more
closely, he realised that Aerenis was right. The sides of each ship were
lined with elves in armour, carrying shields and spears. As the flotilla
came into the sunlight, Carathril saw that the warriors were dressed in
black and purple, with banners of the same flying above them.

‘Naggarothi!’ he snapped. ‘They must have taken the fleet of Tiranoc.’

‘The Naggarothi are here in Eataine?’ Aerenis’s reaction was one of
confusion more than shock.

‘We have to return to Lothern,’ said Carathril, pushing himself from the
wall.

‘I must warn my family.’ Aerenis looked as if he had not heard what
Carathril had said.

The lieutenant broke into a run, shouting to the others by the road.
Carathril headed after him, calling for the company to fall in. There
was anarchy and dissent. Some of the warriors, like Aerenis, had family
outside the city and wished to return to their homes to warn of the
Naggarothi attack.

‘They will fall upon Eataine like a cloud of wrath,’ Aerenis implored,
grabbing Carathril by the sleeve of his robe. ‘We cannot leave our
people ignorant of the threat.’

Carathril could see that order would not be easy to restore. He darted a
look to seaward and saw the first of the hawkships was gliding up to the
harbour. The boarding gantries were already being swung over the side.

‘Those who will return to Lothern, come with me,’ he said quickly, his
gaze roving over the company. ‘Those that wish to see families safe, go
to them as swiftly as possible and bring them to the city. If you cannot
do that, I suggest that you head for the sanctuary of Caledor. I do not
think the Naggarothi will dare the ire of the dragon princes.’

As nearly a third of the company split away, heading north and
westwards, Carathril delayed Aerenis with a hand on his shoulder.

‘Fetch your family and bring them to Lothern,’ said the former herald.
‘Bring as many people from Hal Mentheon as you can.’

Aerenis nodded.

‘Make sure you keep the gates open for us,’ he said. ‘It will take two
days and more to reach them and return.’

‘I will make sure the prince sends out the army to provide escort for
you,’ promised Carathril. ‘I have to go now. Take care of yourself, my
friend.’

‘And you, my captain,’ said Aerenis.

Carathril stood for a moment and watched as Aerenis hurried along the
road, chasing after the dwindling group of silver and green moving
quickly to the west. The captain turned back to the east and signalled
for the remaining members of the company to form up. He looked down at
the harbour and felt a twinge of guilt as lines of black-and-silver
snaked from the docked ships into the fishing town. There was nothing
his small company could do against the several thousand Naggarothi
landing on the shore. His duty was to warn the people of Lothern and
ensure the sea gates were closed.

He set off at a brisk march, the company falling in behind, and blocked
out the first shouts and screams that were carried to him on the sea
breeze.

Banks of cloud had swept over the countryside, swathing Eataine in
darkness, the light of the moons a dim glimmer to the east. In the
gloom, dozens of fires burned, stretching along the coast as towns and
villages were consumed by flames set by the Naggarothi. From the wall of
Lothern, Carathril could see other lights too; the brands carried by the
soldiers of the prince stretching in long lines towards the city,
guiding the refugees to sanctuary.

There had been pitifully few over the last day and a half; no more than
a few thousand had been able to flee the Naggarothi attack. Aerenis had
not yet reported back to the barracks and Carathril feared the worst for
his friend, though he harboured a small hope that he had reached the
city unseen by the captain and was busy attending to his family.

A gong rang loudly over the city and Carathril turned. Bathed in the
pale glow of the Glittering Tower, Lothern was quiet, subdued by the
Naggarothi offensive. More lights clustered between the two great sea
gates, shining from lamps upon the ships of the Eataine fleet; dozens of
vessels that had sought safe harbour from the captured Tiranoc ships
prowling along the coast.

There had been many who had argued for the prince to open the sea gates
and let loose the wrath of the fleet against the raiders, but such
counsel had been refused. Aerethenis, nephew to slain Haradrin, had
little support in his new position and was loath to risk Lothern’s
ships; the kingdom’s greatest weapon. It was a hard-hearted decision to
abandon the folk of Eataine to the merciless Naggarothi, but Carathril
agreed with his ruler. There was no sense in risking an invasion of the
harbour.

The gates below Carathril swung open again as a crowd of elves surged
along the road, escorted by companies of knights with pale-green
pennants. The refugees looked haggard, having been harried across the
pastures and meadows, and many of the knights were wounded, their armour
dented and injuries bandaged. Carathril scanned the faces of the elves
passing into the gate and gave a cry of relief when he spied Aerenis.

Carathril dashed down the steps to the square behind the gatehouse. He
found Aerenis amongst the crowd, three female elves and two young boys
with him.

‘Praise Asuryan that you are safe,’ said Carathril.

Aerenis looked at him with a bleak expression.

‘Asuryan deserves no praise for what has befallen us,’ said the
lieutenant. ‘It was the flame of Asuryan that scorched Malekith and
unleashed this war upon us.’

Carathril was shocked by his friend’s words and could think of no reply.
Aerenis said nothing more as he guided his family across the square, to
where residents of Lothern were waiting with food, blankets and healing
tinctures.

The thunder of hooves on cobbles caused Carathril to draw back as the
knights rode back through the gate. Their captain, his green plume
sparkling in the light of the Glittering Tower, pulled his mount to a
stop beside the gatehouse.

‘Close the gate!’ he bellowed. ‘The enemy have reached the Anir Morien!’

‘What of the rest of the army?’ Carathril called out. ‘We cannot abandon
them.’

The captain looked down at Carathril, his expression one of surprise.

‘What army?’ the captain said with a bitter laugh. ‘Those torches you
see are carried by the Naggarothi! A few companies hold Tir Athenor,
others have fled to the Inner Sea. The Naggarothi will be at the city by
dawn.’

Carathril’s chest tightened and his legs weakened at the news. The
captain’s words had carried across to others in the square. Shouts of
dismay and cries of panic echoed from surrounding buildings. Anir Morien
was the closest of the watch towers beyond the walls, and if it had
fallen the Naggarothi would control an important harbour on the Inner
Sea.

The crowd surged further into the city, spreading the dreadful news.

‘Man the walls, I shall ride to the prince,’ said the knight captain.

Without waiting for a reply, he wheeled his horse away and clattered
across the square, leaving Carathril aghast. Having heard the dire
tidings, many soldiers were leaving the wall, eager to see their
families.

‘Back to your posts!’ Carathril roared, unsheathing his sword. ‘You best
serve your loved ones behind your spears and shields!’

A few disobeyed the order and headed into the city, but most were cowed
by Carathril’s words and filed back into the towers, grim-faced. The
former herald sprang back up the steps to the gatehouse and fixed his
gaze to the west. The flickers of the Naggarothi torches crept closer as
he looked, moving through fields and woods like serpents of flame.

‘Sound the alarm,’ said Carathril, turning to a hornblower beside him.

The musician wetted his lips and lifted the long white horn to his
mouth. He let loose a pealing blast that reverberated across the city.
Within moments it was taken up by those in the other towers, the warning
echoing across Lothern, bells and gongs ringing out in answer.

In the distance, a greater light broke the night; flames from a burning
manse upon a distant hilltop. Carathril could see nothing of the
Naggarothi save for the sea of brands coming ever closer.

‘Archers!’ called Carathril.

He dashed into one of the guard towers and took up a bow and quiver for
himself. Returning to the wall, he found several hundred elves
assembling to either side of the gate, arrows nocked, eyes straining
against the night.

‘Mark the fires,’ said Carathril, stringing a shaft.

The Naggarothi were still some distance away, well out of bowshot.
Something whined in the darkness and a hail of barb-tipped bolts crashed
against the stone of the gatehouse a short distance away. Hidden by the
darkness, the crews of the Naggarothi war engines could easily see the
defenders on the wall and towers.

‘Douse the lanterns,’ Carathril ordered. ‘Pass the word to douse the
lanterns.’

Like a blanket draped across the fortifications, the lamps were
extinguished, darkness spreading to the north and south, leaving only
the faint glimmer of moonlight and the reflected glow of the sea to the
south.

The city’s bolt throwers returned the volleys of the enemy, launching
salvoes of spear-sized shafts towards the approaching glow of the
Naggarothi army. The night was silent save for the slap of rope on wood
and the swish of bolts cutting the air. Not even a cry could yet be
heard, though Carathril was sure the bolt thrower crews would have found
some target.

In response, the Naggarothi put out their brands, the guttering of the
flames sending a chill through Carathril, the countryside around the
city become as dark as the sky. Robbed of their marks, the war engines
of both sides were stilled and a queer calm descended. There were
mutters and whispers from the elves around Carathril until he silenced
them with a sharp word.

All eyes and ears were strained for any sign of the Naggarothi. The
stone of the road was like a pale ribbon that wound through the hills
until it could no longer be seen in the distance. The wind sighed
against the stone and fluttered the banners at their poles atop the
tower roofs.

Time passed, the moons sinking lower in the sky, increasing the
darkness.

Then came the first noise of the Naggarothi; a distant jingling of mail
shirts, the clop of hooves on the road and the padding of thousands of
booted feet. Here and there, Carathril spied a brief glimmer of light as
the dim glow of the moons reflected off a helm or spear tip.

The air was growing colder still. Unnaturally so, thought Carathril. He
could feel the churn of magic in the air and so could the other
defenders. Whispers of sorcery spread along the wall and there were
muttered incantations to ward away the dark magic.

Still the air grew colder, until the breaths of the soldiers were a mist
in the pale moonlight. Carathril flexed his fingers on his bow to ease
their stiffness, but would not dip his aim for a moment. He stared
intently along the shaft, seeking some target upon which he could loose
the arrow, but he saw nothing but vague shadows and glimmers.

The chilling air set his joints to aching and a rime of frost was
creeping across the stones of the wall, the flags hanging limply as ice
crackled on the embroidered banners. The bow began to tremble in
Carathril’s grasp and his shoulders ached with the strain of holding it
up. Around him, archers were uttering hushed curses, blowing on their
fingers, stamping their feet.

Harsh words split the air a moment before a dark cloud of shafts lifted
out from the darkness, hundreds of serrated tips shining as they arced
up towards the wall. The defenders threw themselves to the rampart as
the rain of missiles clattered against the stone. Here and there an elf
cried out, pierced by a shaft, as another volley and another swiftly
followed.

The barbed cloud seemed unending, the repeater crossbows of the
Naggarothi sending a hail of missiles effortlessly through the night.
Carathril clenched his jaw, not daring to lift his head above the
rampart as chips of stone sprayed around him.

Amongst the rattle of impacts and snap of breaking shafts, the captain
could hear the tramp of booted feet getting closer and closer. The
Naggarothi were advancing under the cover of their repeater crossbows.
They would be at the walls soon if the defenders allowed themselves to
be cowed by the flurries of bolts cutting the air.

‘Ready your bows!’ shouted Carathril, rising up to a narrow embrasure.
The archers around him followed his lead, using the wall to cover
themselves against the shafts still descending upon them. Bringing up
his bow, he saw a swathe of darkness no more than two hundred paces from
the wall. Advancing in close formation, shields and spears held high,
the Naggarothi presented an easy target. ‘Loose!’

A storm of white shafts leapt into the gloom, to be met with cries of
pain and surprise. The repetitive snap of the engines in the towers
added to the noise, hurling their bolts into the advancing enemy. The
sound of mail being punctured and flesh being pierced came from all
sides, and within moments the Naggarothi machines were returning fire,
sending up showers of stone shards from the parapets protecting the bolt
throwers.

Exposed, the archers suffered at the next Naggarothi volley, a score and
more reeling back across the wall with vicious shafts in arms and
bodies. Some slumped where they had been standing, helms and
breastplates pierced.

In the dim light, Carathril spied a knot of several dozen Naggarothi
advancing quickly on horseback. They dragged between them a ram
fashioned of dark metal, its head that of a griffon wrought from shining
ithilmar, borne upon a frame made of thick timbers and bound with iron.
More Naggarothi ran behind, ready to man the ram once it was at the
gate.

No order needed to be given. Every elf on the walls knew that the
Naggarothi could not be allowed to attack the gate. Shafts rained down
on the riders, the cries of the cavalry mingling with the whinnying of
wounded steeds.

A great clamour filled the square behind Carathril and he glanced over
his shoulder to see the knights of Eataine gathering, streaming down the
roads of the city to form up in squadrons several hundred strong.

Carathril heard a command to open the gate. Looking down, he saw that
the Naggarothi were less than fifty paces from the gatehouse. If the
sortie failed, they would be inside the city within moments.

‘Do as they say!’ he snapped at the elves in the gate tower, knowing
that the risk had to be taken. The gate was not yet shored up properly,
and once destroyed could not be replaced.

Weights and gears rumbled in the towers as the gate mechanism was freed.
Even as the huge oak doors were swinging inwards, the knights were
breaking into a charge. Rank after rank, ten knights wide, galloped out
of the city with shields ready and lances at full tilt.

The crash of their impact rang against the walls. Carathril could make
out little of the fight in the dark, just a swirl of silver-armoured
figures and pale horses against the gold-and-black knights of Anlec. War
cries and hoarse challenges greeted the charge. Metal rang on metal.

Carathril was forced to duck back behind the parapet as another volley
of repeater crossbow shafts sailed through the air. Peering through the
embrasure, he could see Naggarothi advancing in long lines, carrying
tall ladders between their files, protected by the raised shields of
more warriors to each side. He emptied his quiver, loosing arrow after
arrow into the oncoming assault, but to little effect.

Several squadrons of knights peeled away from the attack along the road,
wheeling into the flank of the spearmen with the ladders. They crashed
through the Naggarothi soldiers who fell in their dozens to lance and
sword and flailing hooves. Yet not a quarter of the spearmen had been
routed when a horn sounded the recall. Fearing to be caught too far from
the gate, the wedge of knights turned their horses and rode back to the
road, where the lead squadrons were already riding through the gate back
to the safety of the city.

At another command, the gates were swung shut just behind the last of
the knights. Bars were slide into place and locked as bolts from the
Naggarothi slammed into the ancient wood of the doors. Carathril judged
that the knights had lost almost a quarter of their number, but the
dark-clad bodies littering the road and the space just before the walls
were testament to the casualties they had inflicted during the brief
sortie.

Further south along the wall there were sounds of fighting, as several
companies of Naggarothi had reached the defences with their ladders. For
the moment it appeared the attention of the Naggarothi had been driven
from the gatehouse and Carathril returned to the guard room to fetch
more arrows. Inside were dozens of wounded elves, sitting against the
walls or lying on mattresses soaked with their blood. Many bore the
marks of the repeater quarrels, and wounded knights were being carried
up the wide stairs to have their injuries tended by the priests and
priestesses within.

Snatching up a fresh quiver from the rapidly diminishing stock,
Carathril returned to his place and looked south. The Naggarothi had
given up their direct assault quickly and were falling back towards the
hills, the shafts of the defenders following them. To the east, across
Lothern, the first ruddy gleam of dawn touched the rooftops and towers.

And so passed the first night of the siege of Lothern, one of many that
would beset the city in the coming seasons.

‘When will Caledor come?’ Mythreir gave voice to the question that had
been asked many times; so many times Carathril had tired of hearing it
asked.

‘Perhaps never,’ snapped the guard captain. ‘You think Lothern is alone
in the Phoenix King’s thoughts?’

‘It should be highest,’ replied the other elf as the two walked along
the northern ramparts of the city, looking down at the Inner Sea. To the
east, a flotilla of ten ships waited behind the Sapphire Gate, sails
trimmed, decks packed with Sea Guard. ‘With Lothern besieged, the
Naggarothi raid across the Inner Sea without hindrance.’

‘And until Ellyrion is secure again, Caledor cannot send relief to the
city,’ said Carathril, sighing heavily. ‘How many times must I explain?’

‘Until you make sense,’ said Myrthreir. ‘Caledor’s strategy is wrong and
the prince should make better representation. With Lothern delivered, we
can control the shore of Ellyrion and supply his army.’

Carathril offered no further reply, annoyed by his companion’s
obstinacy. Caledor would no more relieve Lothern with the enemy free in
Ellyrion than a swordsman would turn his back on an armed opponent. The
city held, and held strong, and that was all that mattered.

They reached their destination, a stretch of wall overlooking the Inner
Sea that curved away from the Sapphire Gate. Further along the shore the
ships of the Naggarothi were beached, having been captured in northern
Ellyrion and sailed south in support of the siege. To the north and
south, the Lothern Straits were bracketed by enemy fleets. The one
saving grace was that the Naggarothi had made no inroads upon the
eastern reaches of Eataine, and many of the populace had been evacuated
towards Saphery.

It was the sea gates the Naggarothi desired though, and for two long
years they had battered the walls with war engines, vile monsters and
evil sorcery. This last had become less of a threat since the arrival of
Eltreneth last autumn, one of the chief mages of Saphery. Soaring above
the city upon his white-winged pegasus, the Sapherian had countered the
spells of the enemy, staff wreathed in mystical power, sword blazing.

Now the enemy prepared for a fresh assault. They had built towers and
rams concealed from the war engines of Lothern by huge ramparts of earth
and timber. They planned to launch this latest attack along the Inner
Sea road, that much was clear, and Prince Aerethenis had finally bowed
to those who would have the fleet of Lothern let free.

Without ceremony, the Sapphire Gate opened, the roar of water building
as the huge portal swung open between the Straits of Lothern and the
Inner Sea. Where the two bodies of water met, the sea thrashed and
foamed as wave crashed against wave, before slowly swirling and dying
away to leave the path clear for the flotilla. The early morning light
shimmered from the gleaming decks of the ships as they passed through
the open gate, their sails bright triangles of white and blue.

‘I heard a new name for them,’ said Mythreir.

‘What’s that?’ said Carathril, his attention on the hills through which
the Inner Sea road cut towards the city, alert for foes that might
attack the emerging flotilla from the coastal cliffs. There was no
movement, yet the two hundred archers who stood with bows ready at the
rampart did not relax their guard, having experienced much Naggarothi
trickery in the past.

‘The Naggarothi,’ said Mythreir. ‘They are being called the druchii
now.’

‘Druchii?’ Carathril could not stop a grim smile. The word meant the
Dark Ones. It was fitting. Since he had first ridden with Prince
Malekith, Carathril had seen the Naggarothi prove themselves capable of
the direst acts. ‘Druchii it is. Let us keep watch for their wiles all
the same.’

The Lothern flotilla sped along the coast at full sail, the pilots
knowing every reef and rock around the harbour entrance. Horns blared in
the distance as the druchii caught sight of the oncoming ships and
Carathril could just make out a burst of activity along the shore as
they streamed towards their own beached vessels.

There came a rush of air and a flap of feathers above and Carathril
looked up to see Eltreneth soaring overhead mounted on his pegasus. The
mage’s staff trailed sparks of red and blue fire as the winged horse
pitched down towards the cliff tops where the druchii had made camp.

A bolt of black lightning leapt up from the sea of dark pavilions, to be
turned away by a shimmering sphere of gold that enveloped Eltreneth.
Hails of repeater arrows streamed towards him, yet these too were turned
away by his magical shield. Even from a distance, Carathril could feel
the ebb and surge of magical energy as the mage and the sorcerers below
him battled for control of the winds of magic. Multicoloured fire leapt
from Eltreneth’s staff, scorching through tent and corral, setting a
swathe of the camp ablaze as dark clouds sprang into existence in the
air around him, crackling with unnatural energy.

The ships had now come into range of the druchii fleet moving off the
beaches. Only a handful of enemy vessels had made the sea when blossoms
of white-burning bolts and arrows seared across the waters, catching in
sails and rigging, setting fire to decking and masts. Not to be outdone,
the druchii fired back with clouds of black shafts, repeater crossbows
and bolt throwers raking the decks of the Eataine ships as they closed
in.

‘Rather them than me,’ said Myrthreir as the two flotillas moved amongst
each other, turning and tacking, their war machines scything the air
between with black- and silver-headed missiles. ‘Let me face my death
toe-to-toe.’

Carathril was inclined to agree but said nothing. The fighting would get
all too personal soon enough as the lightly armed hawkships of both
sides manoeuvred around each other, looking for an opening to board.
From this distance the naval battle looked more like a stately dance
than a desperate contest of bloodshed. The squadrons arced about each
other like partners hand in hand, linked by the clouds of arrows instead
of arms. Here and there they came together, the war cries and crash of
timbers lost in distance so that everything seemed as serene as a
masque.

Two druchii ships were already sinking, aflame from bow to stern, tiny
figures leaping to the water to save themselves. Another listed heavily,
sails tattered, masthead burnt, the rigging a smouldering pile upon its
deck. The Eataine fleet had not suffered too greatly from the exchange,
but a hawkship had already turned and was limping back towards the
Sapphire Gate, a yardarm trailing by ropes over the port side, dragging
like a sea anchor. Carathril could see the white of the crewmen’s robes
as they swarmed around the debris, cutting and hacking to free
themselves from the broken mast’s dead weight.

Having speared through the first line of the enemy, the rest of the
flotilla swooped upon the vessels still landed at the sandy beach.
Eltreneth circled above, driving back the Naggarothi who sought to board
the ships with blasts of flame and glistening silver clouds of magical
blades. Undefended, the beached ships were an easy target for the Sea
Guard, who poured ­flaming arrows into them with volley after volley.

In their attack, the Lothern ships had approached within range of the
bolt thrower batteries mounted on the cliff top. They added their shafts
to the arrows being fired from the camp, iron-headed spears punching
through canvas and timber and flesh as they fired down upon the decks of
the ships.

Sited even more advantageously, the engines of Lothern now let loose
their fury. From the highest towers on the wall, the bolt thrower
captains now spied the druchii’s positions and unleashed a devastating
storm of shafts onto the cliff tops. Here and there an archer near
Carathril loosed a shaft as the war machine crews scurried from cover to
cover, the high wall of the city providing ample extra range for their
Eatainii longbows.

Carathril did not set an arrow to his bow, knowing that his aim was not
so good at such extreme range. Always he had been better with sword and
spear. Such skills had been put to the test more than a dozen times
since that first night attack, repelling assault after assault on the
city walls. Sometimes he had faced the sinister Naggarothi legions,
other times cultists fuelled by bestial hatred and frenzy-inducing
drugs. On more than one occasion the Naggarothi had gained the wall and
threatened to overcome the defenders, but on each occasion the defenders
had held firm, rallied by their leaders to drive the enemy back from
Lothern.

It was spirit-sapping, the endless tension, the constant waiting for the
next attack. The garrison of the city and the few citizens who had
remained behind to provide for them were not without supply, from the
sea and the east, but such was the ever-present danger of the city
becoming surrounded that such food as was brought in was carefully
rationed. Water too was always stringently measured, ever since some of
the wells in the southern quarter had been found to be poisoned.

That was perhaps the worst part of all; the enemy that hid within. Long
had the cytharai worshippers made their lairs and temples unseen in
Lothern, and even the discovery of Prince Aeltherin’s cabal two decades
earlier had not ended them. Now they acted as assassins and saboteurs, a
shadowy threat that could strike at any time. Some had been discovered,
but so many elves had fled into the city two years earlier it was
impossible to guard against attack and patrol the streets at the same
time. Lone soldiers heading back to barracks from duty had been waylaid,
families threatened and kidnapped and slain, captains and nobles
blackmailed, the cultists ever seeking to weaken the strength and the
resolve of the city’s defenders.

That was one concern that Carathril did not have. He had few friends and
no family. He fought for his city alone, and was responsible solely for
himself. He did not count the number of his fellow elves he had slain,
nor the times he had come so close to death. Two years had numbed him to
the fighting, deadening the pain in his spirit that threatened with each
attack.

The naval raid was almost finished. Half a dozen druchii ships had been
destroyed at the cost of three vessels, the rest of the enemy flotilla
fleeing northwards along the coast. Companies of Sea Guard had landed,
nearly two thousand in all, and were fighting through the druchii camp
to bring down the siege engines and set oil and flame upon the rams.
Smoke billowed across the waters of the Inner Sea and the crackle of
flames spread along the shore.

A great cheer rippled along the wall as another tower was brought
crashing down in an explosion of wood and rope and tarred canvas. It was
quickly silenced as horns pealed from further west along the wall. All
eyes turned in that direction.

The main druchii army was on the move; not for the city but to the
relief of its shore camp. At its fore, the Naggarothi knights galloped
ahead, thousands of heavily armoured warriors riding in columns across
the fields and hills, intent upon the Sea Guard. Warned from the city,
the green-and-blue clad warriors of the navy broke off their attack and
covered by archers and bolt throwers upon the ships returned to their
vessels, quickly streaming up the gangplanks.

The knights had barely reached the outskirts of the ravaged camp by the
time the ships were putting off from shore, their sails hauled up,
tacking across the wind to head back towards Lothern. It was impossible
to tell how much damage had been wrought by the raid, but the pall of
smoke was testament to considerable success.

The elves upon the walls raised their spears and bows and sang songs of
rejoicing as the flotilla passed back through the Sapphire Gate.
Carathril did not feel like celebrating. He looked along the shore of
the Inner Sea to where the druchii were amassing. It was only a matter
of time before they came again. He stowed his bow and leaned on the
rampart, eyes fixed on the host of the Naggarothi slowly moving back
westwards.

How long could Lothern hold, alone against such determined hate?

‘When will Caledor come?’ Carathril whispered.
