
FOURTEEN 

Rivers of Blood

The carnage in Avelorn and the Everqueen’s dramatic actions brought a
cessation to the open fighting. The absence of marauding Naggarothi
armies lessened the pressure on Caledor, though the mustering of the
force to Avelorn had depleted garrisons across the eastern kingdoms and
the cultists increased their sacrifices and murders.

A relative peace descended upon Ulthuan, as both sides regrouped and
considered their next strategies. In the last days of the autumn, the
princes were again called to the Isle of the Flame for council, and as
before they were divided over the best course of action. Caledor spoke
little, and allowed the princes to argue amongst themselves.

‘The Naggarothi cannot recover from their latest defeat,’ insisted
Dorien, addressing the council in full armour. ‘Now is the time to press
an attack into Nagarythe.’

‘We suffered badly too,’ said Tithrain. ‘What troops I managed to raise
were all but slain in Avelorn. The cytharai worshippers run amok through
Cothique. To send what remains of my army now would be to abandon my
people.’

‘Tithrain is right,’ said Carvalon, the ruler of Yvresse. ‘With the
Naggarothi beaten back, we should make efforts to secure our homes
against attack from within.’

‘The Naggarothi are not beaten,’ said Finudel, slapping a gauntleted
hand on the table at which he sat. ‘There are still many of them in
northern Ellyrion. We should muster our strength there and drive them
back across the mountains.’

‘Do not forget Tiranoc,’ said Thyriol. The mage tapped his fingers in
agitation, eyes moving constantly between the other princes. ‘It would
be a mistake to think the druchii have fled back to Nagarythe. They
still hold several passes across the mountains and threaten Caledor,
Ellyrion, Chrace, even Eataine. We cannot defend all of these places at
once.’

‘Has there been any news from the Anars?’ asked Athielle. ‘Do they still
wage war within Nagarythe?’

‘Alith Anar is dead,’ replied Caledor.

Athielle gasped in horror and there were murmurs of unease from the
other princes.

‘The druchii have been crowing about it for some time,’ explained the
priest, Mianderin. ‘Apparently Morathi’s assassins caught him. We can
expect no aid from inside Nagarythe.’

‘The last time we waited for the Naggarothi to act, Avelorn was all but
destroyed,’ Dorien snapped. ‘Which kingdom will be sacrificed next?’

‘The druchii will not move again until spring,’ Caledor declared. ‘Use
the winter to root out the cultists that persist in your kingdoms. The
dragons will patrol the mountains, and we will set garrisons to guard
the passes. We will gather what forces we can in Ellyrion, Caledor and
Chrace when the season turns again.’

As the Phoenix King commanded, so it was. The warriors of Chrace and
Caledor, whose kingdoms had been freed of the cultist threat, followed
the Phoenix King on a purge through Eataine and Yvresse. Progress was
slow, for the cultists were skilled at hiding in plain sight and when
discovered fought to the death, knowing that they could no longer expect
mercy. By the time the winter had passed, Lothern and Tor Yvresse had
been secured, and all passage in and out of the cities was carefully
watched to prevent the cultists returning.

In the spring, the securing of Yvresse occupied the Phoenix King. This
task proved even more difficult than he feared; the many isles that
lined the kingdom’s coast provided hundreds of hidden sanctuaries for
those that sought to undermine the Phoenix King’s rule and strike out at
those who followed him.

The ships and Sea Guard of Eataine were placed at Caledor’s disposal, in
return for two dragons sent to guard Lothern against possible druchii
naval attack. Even the most experienced ship pilots found the straits
and channels of Yvresse a troublesome prospect, as small flotillas
prowled the coastline seeking to intercept the cultist groups as they
sailed to the mainland on their raids.

Caledor was frustrated by every delay, but was not a leader to abandon a
pledge simply because it proved difficult. Day after day he consulted
with the captains and cartographers, plotting the patrol routes and
launching expeditions against the larger isles to eradicate any cult
encampments. The Phoenix King occasionally joined these maritime forays
on Maedrethnir, flying above the fog-shrouded isles seeking telltale
signs of cult inhabitants. Several innocent fishing vessels and villages
were terrified by the arrival of the Phoenix King and his monstrous
mount, crashing out of the skies ready for battle.

Eventually, as spring became summer, Caledor prepared to move on to
Cothique with a smaller army, having despatched a number of warriors and
his dragon princes across the Inner Sea to help guard Ellyrion and
Chrace. The druchii had launched nothing more than a few raids since the
autumn and the Phoenix King suspected that Morathi planned a new
offensive.

Ever wary of the occupation of Tiranoc neighbouring his home kingdom,
Caledor appointed Dorien as warden, effectively giving his brother rule
while he immersed himself in his duties as Phoenix King. Dorien was
displeased by this development, thinking that being sent back to Tor
Caled was some kind of punishment for his outspoken views on taking the
fight to Nagarythe. Despite the Phoenix King’s assurances to the
contrary, and emphasising the trust he was placing in him, Dorien sent
frequent messages from Caledor demanding that he be allowed to lead an
army to free Tiranoc.

Worried that his brother would do something rash, Caledor paused in his
advance to Cothique, thinking to return to his kingdom to settle
Dorien’s spirit. On the morning he was due to fly south, a messenger
hawk bearing a crystal from Thyriol arrived. The bird flew directly into
Caledor’s tent, startling the Phoenix King and his Chracian guards.

‘Leave it be,’ said the king as one of the White Lions stepped towards
the bird of prey.

Caledor abandoned the maps he had been studying and took the pouch tied
to the bird’s leg. Several times had Thyriol sent word in this way, but
as Caledor took the crystal from the bag and set it upon a low table he
felt the bird’s hasty arrival foreshadowed important news.

He was right.

Thyriol’s shimmering image appeared in the centre of the pavilion,
pacing back and forth across the rugs. The mage was fidgeting even more
than usual, wriggling his fingers and shaking his head as he spoke.

‘King Caledor, I fear my eye has been drawn away from Saphery too long,’
the mage said. ‘While I helped you spy out the cultists in other
kingdoms, darkness has festered in my own realm. Though I have striven
to suppress them, agents of Morathi have long attempted to sway some of
my followers to the dark path. I thought I had taught them the folly of
seeking the power of sorcery, but my warnings have fallen on ears deaf
to them. Only this day I have discovered the practise of sorcery within
my palace. My grandson Anamedion is dead and my daughter Illeanith has
fled with the dark mages.’

Thyriol paused in his striding, lifting a hand to his brow for a moment,
head bowed. He straightened and resumed his pacing.

‘That is of no consequence directly. The palace is secured and I have
moved it to a safe place in the mountains. If you wish to return a
message to me, the hawk will find me. The sorcerers are free to wreak
whatever ruin they can. They have corrupted some of my students and I
cannot overstate the harm they may yet do.’

The mage stopped and reached a hand towards the crystal, half imploring,
half in apology.

‘I regret that until this threat had been dealt with, my mages must
return to their kingdom and seek out these dark practitioners. I know
that this leaves you with little defence against Morathi’s sorceries but
it must be done. The towers of Saphery hold many precious secrets that
cannot fall into the hands of the druchii. I also know that you can
spare few troops to aid us at this time, but any that you can send to
Saphery will be invaluable. Even more than Cothique or Yvresse, we are
not a kingdom ready for outright war. Yet it has come to us and I know
in my heart the battles to come will be terrible.’

Thyriol gave a perfunctory bow.

‘I must go and prepare for the coming battles, my king. I will send word
again when I know more.’

The image shimmered and disappeared. Caledor frowned at the crystal,
annoyed that he could not respond immediately. Instead, he called for a
scribe to take a letter and composed a brief message to Thyriol,
promising his immediate support. Another herald was summoned to travel
to Dorien, telling the king’s brother that Caledor would not be
returning. With this done, the Phoenix King summoned his princes and
commanders to discuss their next move.

The news of Saphery’s turmoil spread through the camp. Several captains
from Eataine and Yvresse, bordering Saphery, sought leave to return to
their princes so that their kingdoms could be protected against any
threat that spilled from the imminent war between the mages and
sorcerers.

Caledor flatly refused all such requests and announced that the army
would march to Saphery to assist Prince Thyriol. It was also in the
Phoenix King’s mind that this would bring his forces closer to the Inner
Sea, should the Naggarothi make any fresh move in the west.

The following day as the army was forming up in column to march across
the mountains to Saphery, a group of riders hastily entered the camp
bearing the colours of Prince Tithrain. The exhausted heralds refused
all refreshment and insisted they be admitted immediately into Caledor’s
presence. The Phoenix King met them on the open field as servants broke
down his pavilion ready for the march.

‘What is it?’ said the Phoenix King, fearing that the inexperienced
ruler of Cothique distracted him with some petty concern or imagined
fear. It would not be the first time.

‘The Naggarothi have returned,’ said the chief herald, sweeping his helm
from his head and bowing low. ‘Cothique is under attack!’

‘How?’ demanded Caledor. ‘How have they come through Chrace so swiftly?’

‘They have not, my king,’ said the herald. ‘They arrived in a huge fleet
and landed on the coast not more than six days ago. An army at least
thirty thousand strong marches inland across the Anul Annurii. Prince
Tithrain cannot hold them back with the few thousand troops he has.’

For a moment Caledor was stunned. How had the druchii held back such an
army until now? And where had they got so many ships to carry them? The
answer came to him quickly enough.

‘Elthin Arvan,’ he said.

‘I’m sorry, my king, I don’t understand,’ said the herald.

‘The druchii have abandoned Athel Toralien,’ said the king. ‘They have
brought back all of their warriors from the colony to launch a fresh
attack.’

‘As you say,’ said the herald. ‘With what message shall we ride back to
our prince?’

Caledor did not reply for some time. He could march north immediately,
but his army and the dragons were spread across Ulthuan. To confront the
enemy with the host at his disposal would be pointless. He needed to
pull as many troops as possible back from the west, though he was wary
of leaving Ellyrion and Chrace unguarded.

‘Tell Tithrain to hide,’ he said eventually. The declaration was met
with stunned expressions from the messengers. Irritated, Caledor
expanded on his instructions. ‘He must avoid battle at all costs and
preserve as many warriors as he can for my arrival.’

‘What of the people of Cothique?’ asked the horrified herald. ‘What will
they do while our prince hides? How can you abandon them?’

‘They must hide as well,’ said Caledor, hardening his heart to the
decision. ‘Or they will die.’

The moans of the prisoners and the shrieks of those dying on the altars
were a symphony in the ears of Hellebron; an orchestration of pain and
suffering and death that seemed like the anthem of Khaine Himself. She
raised her voice in praise to the Bloody-Handed God as she watched
another Cothan dragged to Khaine’s altar, futile in her attempts to
wrest free of the cultists’ grip as they threw her over the bloodied
stone table.

The pyre raged some distance away, so hot Hellebron could feel its
flames on her skin though it was more than a bowshot from her. The
column of smoke and fire reached high into the heavens, taking the
spirits of the sacrificed to the Lord of Murder. Hellebron felt a thrill
of exultation as she looked at the massive pyre and thought of the
hundreds that had already been slain. Thousands more would come, until
all of Cothique had fallen beneath the Khainites’ blades.

The kingdom was ample reward for her slaying of the so-called Shadow
King. It was recompense for the death of her sister at the hands of the
Anar prince. More than that, it was recognition for her deeds in the
cult of Khaine, and had come with praise from the lips of Morathi.
Hellebron had savoured every plaudit, basking in the adulation of the
assembled commanders and princes as Morathi had listed Hellebron’s
achievements as an example to them all.

She had returned to the waiting fleet as swiftly as a ship could take
her, accompanying her father Prince Alandrian. In name, the army was
his, the dispossessed host of Athel Toralien, but Hellebron knew they
belonged to her in spirit. Through the long years of siege endured by
her home city in the colonies, she had inculcated the populace into the
ways of Khaine. As the forces arrayed against them had grown, the people
of Athel Toralien had embraced the Bloody-Handed One.

The other elves of the colonies had shown their weakness of spirit, and
had fallen at the walls of the city time after time, their bodies
recovered so that they might be offered up to the Lord of Murder in
thanks for His protection of Athel Toralien. Those attackers who reached
the ramparts had been taken prisoner, and their long screams had kept
the besiegers awake at nights while the elves in the city celebrated in
the name of their bloodthirsty deity.

At first Hellebron had been distraught when Alandrian had informed her
and Lileath that they were to surrender Athel Toralien to their enemies.
Only when she learnt that the city was to be razed and the entire
populace return to Ulthuan was Hellebron pleased. The Athel Toraliens
had proven themselves even stronger than Nagarythe, and now returned to
their ancestral home to aid the princes and captains that had once
looked down upon them.

Smiling from the memory, Hellebron joined her personal guard. Their
captain was Liannin, once maidservant to Hellebron, now the fiercest of
her followers. The three hundred warrior-women Hellebron called the
Brides of Khaine had been the first off the ships, falling upon Cothique
like a bloody storm.

Skilled in Khaine’s deadliest arts, Hellebron’s guard were naked save
for a few scraps of cloth and metal, eschewing armour in favour of
speed, trusting to kill before they were killed, demonstrating their
faith in Khaine’s protection. Their hair was styled with elaborate
spikes and braids, held in place with matted gore. Their pale flesh was
tattooed and branded with runes of devotion to Khaine, and their lips
reddened from drinking blood. Many had glazed eyes, chewing narcotic
leaves that left them impervious to pain, and all proudly showed their
scars of battle, their old wounds painted with elaborate designs to
attract attention. In battle they took other drugs to drive themselves
into a frenzy, and using the secrets taught to them by Hellebron and her
late sister they coated their blades in the deadliest poisons. In Athel
Toralien they had been the scourge of the attackers, fighting where the
battle was fiercest. In Cothique they had yet to test themselves, a fact
that rankled them.

‘When will we face an enemy of worth?’ asked Liannin. She rested her
hands on the twin swords scabbarded at her waist and licked her lips,
savouring the blood spattered on them. ‘Khaine is forced to feed on
peasants.’

‘When the fires of Khaine can be seen from Caledor’s throne room, the
Phoenix King will be forced to come,’ replied Hellebron. ‘When the
screams of Khaine’s sacrifices can be heard at the Shrine of Asuryan,
Caledor will have to face us.’

‘Until then?’ said Liannin.

‘Until then, Khaine will lap up such scraps as we can throw Him,’ said
Hellebron. ‘Refugees have been seen hiding in caves, in the hills to the
west. Several hundred of them. Take them alive if you can. If not, slay
them with the name of Khaine upon your lips.’
