
EIGHTEEN 

The Call of Kurnous

Alith rode north for several days, unwilling to return to his Naggarothi
and wanting to get far away from Tor Elyr: from Athielle. He made no
haste as he rode. There had been a time when he would have enjoyed the
sun above, the fresh air and the wild meadows. Now he did not even see
them. His thoughts were ever inward as he tried to wrestle a spark of
bright truth from the darkness that had enveloped his heart.

As soon as he had left Tor Elyr Alith had known that he would not return
for Athielle. Finudel had been correct, there was no life for him here;
no life that he could share with Athielle. Across the mountains,
Elanardris was a burnt ruin, his family destroyed, his people
slaughtered or scattered. There was nothing in the world that Alith
could hold on to, draw strength from. Like a leaf bobbing upon a
bubbling stream, Alith was adrift on a current of violence and strife,
unable to choose his course or destination.

Northwards Alith rode for day after day, guided by nothing more than a
whim. He hunted rabbit and deer on the plains and kept away from the
mountains, which were so like Elanardris and yet not his ancestral home.

Sometimes he rode by night and did not sleep, other times he meandered
for days on end, fishing and hunting, not moving north nor turning back
south. He did not count the sunrises and sunsets and lost track of how
much time had passed since he had left Tor Elyr. It did not matter.

One sun-drenched afternoon, Alith saw a huge forest to the north-east
and he turned his mount towards it. Following the curve of the Annulii,
Alith headed towards Avelorn, the realm of the Everqueen.

Tall and ancient were the trees of Avelorn, growing upon the far bank of
the winding river Arduil that marked the boundary of Ellyrion. It was a
remarkable change of scenery. On the south-west banks the land mounded
upwards into the plains and meadows of the horse-folk; on the far side a
dark mass of foliage obscured the whole horizon, the tips of the
mountains only dimly seen far beyond the immense spread of leaves.

Alith called his horse to a halt on the near bank of the river and
looked out over the clear waters to the gloomy forest. Brightly coloured
birds fluttered from branch to branch, their screeches and shrill chirps
unwelcoming. Furred things snuffled in the undergrowth searching for
roots and berries. Honeybees the size of Alith’s thumb hummed to and
fro, moving across the last blossoms clinging to the branches.

Alith was filled with a melancholy air. It was not so sharp as the
depression that had often gripped him since Black Fen. There was no
bitterness in his mood, only an ennui brought upon him by the doleful
scene played out across the river. Avelorn was neither bright nor dark;
it simply was what it was. Though a brisk wind blew across the plains at
Alith’s back, the branches of Avelorn remained motionless, still and
quiet, sombre for eternity.

Birthplace of the elves, some philosophers had called it. The spiritual
heart of Ulthuan; blessed by Isha and ruled over by the Everqueen. Alith
had no desire to meet Avelorn’s mysterious lady. His life of late had
been full enough of princes and kings and queens. Alith’s whim had
brought him this far, to the furthest extent of Ellyrion, but he felt no
inclination to go any further. Likewise, he had no desire to turn away,
for southwards lay only more strife and the distracting presence of
Athielle.

He sat for the rest of the afternoon watching the forest, seeing it
change as the sun set. The shadows lengthened and the gloom deepened. In
the twilight, feral eyes glittered from the dark, watching Alith
closely. The day birds roosted and fell quiet, their cries replaced by
the haunting calls of owls and night falcons. The underbrush came alive
with a multitude of small animals; mice and shrews and other creatures
ventured out under the cover of darkness.

There came a sound that sent a shiver down Alith’s spine, of excitement
rather than fear. It was the howl of a wolf, soon raised in chorus with
other lupine voices. It came from the right, to the east, and moved
closer. Alith turned his gaze in the direction of the sound but could
see nothing between the dark boles of the trees.

A crash of leaves and snap of branches drew his attention, and Alith
glimpsed a flash of movement. Something white leapt over a bush and
disappeared behind a tree. Alith followed its progress and a moment
later saw it in full: a white stag.

It swiftly disappeared from sight and the growl of the wolves grew
louder. Unthinking, drawn by some instinct within him, Alith dismounted
and waded into the river, following the noise. Soon the water was too
deep to wade and he struck out with powerful strokes. His bow and sword
were still in his pack on the horse’s back, but he gave them no thought.
He was filled with the urge to follow the stag.

A warm breeze sighed against Alith as he pulled himself onto the far
bank, using the root of a tree for purchase. The wolves were close now;
Alith fancied he could hear their panting and the pad of feet on mulch.
Without hesitation he plunged into the undergrowth and entered Avelorn.

Alith headed in the direction in which he had last seen the white stag.
At an easy run, he cut along winding trails and leapt over sprawling
roots. The howl of a wolf echoed close at hand, to his left, and was
answered from his right. Ignoring the hunting pack, he ran on, swift and
sure.

The last of the sun disappeared and plunged Alith into darkness. His
eyes quickly adjusted and he did not slow his pace, feeling his way
between the rearing trunks of the ancient trees as much as he guided
himself by sight. Now and then he glimpsed white ahead of him and he
quickened his pace, until he was short of breath from the exertion.

Snarls and growls surrounded Alith but he was heedless of their threat.
He had been seeking a guide and the stag had come to him. He was
determined that this time he would find out where it wanted him to go.

Alith broke into a small clearing and stumbled to a halt. The stag was
stood just ten paces away, head tossing as it sensed the wolf pack
closing in. Alith glanced to his left and right and saw silvery wisps
encircling the clearing; the flash of yellow eyes and the heavy pant of
the wolves were all around him.

As one the pack advanced to the edge of the clearing. He counted fifteen
wolves, and there were others still moving around the periphery. The
stag stood rigid, eyes wide with panic, muscles quivering with
exhaustion. It lowered its head and scuffed the leaf-strewn ground with
a hoof.

The wolves glared at Alith and the stag from the bushes, pacing back and
forth, uncertain. A few sat on their haunches and watched patiently,
tongues lolling from their mouths. They were the largest wolves Alith
had seen, their fur a mix of dark grey and glittering silver. He felt
the piercing gaze of their opal eyes upon him, gauging him, watching for
any weakness.

‘The two-legs is lost,’ growled a voice behind Alith. He spun to see a
massive wolf stalking into the clearing. It was almost as tall as the
stag, its shoulders as high as Alith’s chest. Its fur was thick, a deep
ruff of black running down its back, its tail thick and bushy. As it
spoke, Alith saw fangs as long as his fingers, each as sharp as a dagger
point. All these things Alith noted in an instant, but the creature’s
eyes kept his attention. They were a bright yellow and seemed to flicker
with orange flames.

‘Smell fish,’ said another wolf. The beasts spoke in the language of
Kurnous, the same tongue Alith used with the hawks of the mountains.
‘Crossed river.’

The pack leader, for such was the black-maned wolf, took another pace,
ears flicking.

‘Our hunt,’ the wolf said. It took a moment for Alith to realise the
wolf was addressing him.

Alith glanced over his shoulder at the stag, which was standing
motionless a few paces behind him. It appeared calm, one eye fixed on
Alith.

‘My hunt,’ said Alith. ‘Stag is mine. Follow long time.’

The blackmane snarled, lips rippling away from its savage teeth.

‘Your hunt? No fangs. No hunt.’

Alith drew his hunting knife from his belt and held it in front of him.

‘One fang,’ he said. ‘Sharp fang.’

The wolves yapped and wagged their tails in amusement and the leader
padded even closer, standing only a few paces from Alith, muscles taut,
tail rigid.

‘Sharp fang, yes,’ said the leader. ‘We many fangs. Our hunt. You prey.’

The rustle of leaves betrayed other wolves advancing into the clearing,
growing in confidence. Alith could not defend himself against all of
them. He looked again at the stag, mind racing. He recalled the words of
Elthyrior – that he should not second-guess the gods but should follow
the instincts they had placed within him. He remembered also the shrine
to Kurnous where he had first seen the white stag. It was a place of
sacrifice, where the slain were laid upon the altar of the Hunter God.
The black flash of Kurnous’s rune upon the stag’s breast burned in
Alith’s mind.

Kurnous was the god of the hunter, not the hunted. The stag was his gift
to Alith.

‘My hunt!’ snapped Alith.

He leapt towards the stag and threw his left arm over its neck even as
he drove the point of his knife into the rune of Kurnous, plunging its
blade deep into the deer’s heart. The stag leapt away, breaking from
Alith’s grasp, blood spuming from the wound. Taking a faltering step the
stag fell to its side, back arched, and within moments was dead.

A cacophony of growls and barks surrounded Alith as he turned on the
wolf leader, bloodied blade in hand.

‘One fang, sharp fang,’ Alith said. He strode to the stag and grabbed an
antler, pulling up the animal’s head. ‘Plenty food. Our kill.’

The blackmane stopped, muscles bunching to lunge. It eyed the dead deer
and then Alith’s knife.

‘Our kill?’ said the wolf.

Alith let go of the antler and knelt beside the carcass, cutting around
the wound he had inflicted. He pulled free a hunk of raw flesh and
tossed it towards the blackmane.

‘Our kill,’ Alith said again, cutting more meat for himself. He waited
until the pack leader took the offered meat, gulping it down in one
mouthful. Alith took a deep bite, the still-warm blood dribbling over
his chin, coating his hands. He could feel the power of the stag passing
into him, firing his senses.

Cautiously the wolves approached. Alith stood up and stepped away, blood
smeared on his clothes. The spirit of Kurnous raged within him, setting
his heart to pounding, relishing the taste of the deer in his mouth.

As the wolves set upon the body of the white stag, Alith raised his head
and howled.

Waking sharply, Alith felt hot breath on his cheek and warmth all around
him. He opened his eyes and glanced around, finding himself in the
dimness of a cave, the early sun creeping through the entrance. The wolf
pack lay around him, their breaths and snores reverberating quietly
around the cavern. He was laid between two of the beasts, close but not
touching.

The iron taste of blood filled his mouth and Alith licked his dry lips.
He became aware of his own nudity, his exposed flesh slicked with
cracking patches of dried crimson. His hands were similarly stained,
blood beneath his fingernails and worked into the creases between his
fingers. Blood smeared the muzzles of the wolves around him and matted
the fur of their chests.

Alith remembered nothing of the night before, save for flashes of red,
the tear of skin and the crack of bones. He dimly recalled the
exultation he had felt, the victory of the kill that eclipsed his
pleasure of any other hunt. Though he found his surroundings strange, he
sensed no threat, no discomfort. No guilt. Some part of him that had
lain hidden had been awoken, given freedom to show itself for the first
time. He felt its aftertouch lingering inside, a savagery and fierce joy
that had taken control of him but was for the moment sated.

Sitting up slowly, Alith discovered he still wore his belt, bloodied
knife sheathed at his waist. Beyond the cave entrance he saw a wall of
trees and ferns, blocking all sight beyond a dozen paces. He heard the
gushing of a waterfall close by and the sound stirred in him a deep
thirst.

Delicately, Alith stood, careful not to wake the wolves around him. As
he picked his way between the slumbering hunters, he spied the enormous
form of the blackmane, sprawled languidly next to a large female at the
centre of the cave. Seeing the pack leader brought back the memory of
his confrontation and he shivered at the recollection, realising that he
had been but a heartbeat away from sharing the fate of the white stag.

Stepping out into the dawn Alith was surprised he felt no chill,
unclothed as he was. The sun barely peeked through the treetops but he
was warmed with a heat from inside.

Alith turned to his right, following the sound of water. The ground
outside the cave was scuffed and marked by the paw prints of much use
and the reek of the wolves’ spoor was heavy in the air. The cave was a
split in a rearing grey cliff face hung with ivy and other creeping
plants. Far above Alith’s head, more trees grew at the top of the butte,
their roots jutting over the edge. Walking along its base, he came to a
shallow pool, fed by a beck that tumbled down a gully etched through the
cliff face.

Alith squatted by the pool and dipped his hands into the clear water. It
was cold and refreshing and he splashed his face and the back of his
neck, the sensation sending a thrilling ripple across his skin. Though
his thirst was sharp, Alith washed away the stains from his bloody feast
before raising a cupped hand to his mouth. A waft of hot breath struck
his back and Alith whirled, water flying from his fingers.

Blackmane stood barely two paces away, several other wolves not far
behind their leader. Droplets of water glistened on the fur of
Blackmane’s face. He looked up at Alith with his head cocked to one
side.

‘Young sun, early to wake,’ growled Blackmane. ‘Two-legs leave?’

Blackmane’s hackles were rising and he ran his thick tongue over
bloodstained teeth. It was clear that Blackmane still wanted to kill
him.

‘Thirst,’ replied Alith, glancing back at the pool. ‘Not leaving.’

‘You hunt, you kill with pack,’ said Blackmane. ‘One of pack?’

Alith paused and in the moment of hesitation, Blackmane took a step.
Alith held his ground, knowing that to show the slightest sign of
weakness would be to invite attack. The other wolves regarded Alith with
curiosity, but he felt no animosity from them. It did not matter,
Blackmane would be more than a match for Alith if he chose to fight.

‘One of pack,’ Alith said.

‘Who pack leader?’ demanded Blackmane, advancing another step.

‘You pack leader,’ said Alith.

Blackmane snapped his jaw a couple of times and settled back, haunches
tensing, his tail curling over his back.

‘Show me!’ snarled the wolf.

Alith was at a loss for a moment, until he saw the other wolves behind
Blackmane cringing from their leader, dropping their bellies to the
ground, their ears flattened against their heads. Alith did as best he
could, falling to all fours and resting his chest on the dirt, his eyes
fixed on Blackmane.

The pack leader straightened, towering over Alith. His eyes narrowed
with suspicion and Alith met his gaze, not daring to move in the
slightest. After some considerable time, Blackmane relaxed, ears
flicking, and stepped away.

‘Drink,’ said Blackmane, before turning his back on Alith and stalking
back to the cave.

Alith breathed a sigh of relief and sat back, his heart hammering. One
of the other wolves approached him, a female with a silver streak along
the top of her muzzle, and Alith tensed again, expecting another
confrontation. None came, and the wolf licked his chin and cheek, her
heavy tongue rasping against Alith’s skin.

Turning back to the pool, Alith dipped in his hand once again and
finally took a mouthful of water. Fighting the urge to drink heavily,
Alith drank a few more mouthfuls and then stood. He reached down and
stroked the head of the nearest wolf, scratching it behind the ear.

‘One of the pack,’ the wolf said, tail wagging. Some of the other wolves
gave reassuring whufs and gathered around Alith, rubbing their furred
bodies against him. Guided by his four-legged companions, Alith returned
to the cave.
