
SIXTEEN 

Blood on the Plains

Cheers greeted Alith’s arrival at the Naggarothi camp, but the
enthusiasm of his followers was soon quelled by his dour expression.
Amongst those that thronged towards him from the tents, Alith recognised
many faces. The former Shadows Anraneir and Khillrallion were there,
with Tharion, Anadriel and several others who had fought at Dark Fen.
All seemed pleased to see him, but there was a drawn, haunted look about
their faces.

‘We feared for you, lord, when you disappeared from Elanardris,’ said
Anraneir. ‘We thought you dead, or worse.’

‘You were not wrong,’ replied Alith. ‘Though I am not dead in body, I
suffer all the more for it.’

Some of the captains exchanged worried glances at this, but remained
silent.

‘What are your orders, prince?’ asked Tharion.

It struck Alith as strange that one of his father’s closest friends, who
had fought beside Eothlir in the colonies, would look to him for
leadership. Alith considered the question for some time.

‘Fight until your last breath, and with that last breath spit out your
hatred of the druchii.’

The army moved westwards towards the Pass of the Eagle, a force of
several hundred knights riding ahead of the host to spy the position of
the enemy. The Naggarothi marched alongside the Ellyrian spearmen and
archers, and Alith walked with them, choosing to accompany his warriors
on foot rather than ride with Finudel and Athielle.

Two days from the pass, scouts returned with word of the druchii army.
Messengers asked Alith to attend the Ellyrian prince and princess so
that they might devise a strategy. They met just after midday, as the
army took a break from its march along the southern bank of the Irlana
River. Beneath a pavilion roof of blue and gold, the commanders sought
the counsel of each other whilst they refreshed themselves with water
from the river and fruits brought from orchards further south.

‘We are outnumbered, that is for certain,’ they were told by Prince
Aneltain, who had met Alith whilst returning from the ill-fated
expedition to Ealith more than twenty-five years earlier. It was
Aneltain’s warriors that formed the vanguard and the prince had
troubling news. ‘Forty thousand infantry at least, and some ten thousand
knights. Few are cultists, most are soldiers trained in Anlec.’

‘That is nearly ten thousand more warriors than we have mustered,’ said
Athielle. She paused to take a bite from a red apple, her expression
pensive.

‘It is, but we have the greater number of cavalry,’ said Finudel. ‘We
have twice as many riders.’

‘These are knights of Anlec, not reavers,’ said Alith. ‘You cannot count
their strength by numbers alone.’

‘And the reavers of Ellyrion carry bows,’ countered Finudel. ‘And ride
swifter steeds. The druchii knights can chase us for a year and a day
and they will never catch us.’

‘They do not need to chase us, brother,’ said Athielle, finishing the
apple, tossing the core towards her horse, Silvermane. ‘The enemy know
that we must stand at some time, to protect Tor Elyr.’

‘Why?’ asked Alith. The other elves directed surprised looks towards
him. ‘Why do you need to protect Tor Elyr?’

‘Fifty thousand of our subjects live in the city,’ said Finudel, a touch
of anger in his voice. ‘We could not abandon them to the cruel intent of
the druchii.’

‘Evacuate them,’ said Alith. ‘By land and ship, have your people leave
the city. It is only stone and wood, after all. Why hang such a weight
about your necks when you have such a swift army?’

‘It matters not,’ said Athielle. ‘Though many of us can ride away from
the druchii, even in Ellyrion there are not enough horses for every elf.
Half our force is on foot.’

‘Have them hide in Athelian Toryr, where the enemy will not happily
follow.’

‘Hide?’ spat Finudel. ‘You would have us allow the druchii to ravage our
lands at will, leaving us destitute and homeless.’

‘Better that than make food for the crows,’ Alith replied. ‘While you
live you can fight.’

‘We will not run like cowards,’ said Athielle. ‘Too many have done so
and paid the price later. The Naggarothi only grow stronger the longer
we delay confrontation.’

Alith shrugged.

‘Then we will fight them,’ he said. ‘It would be wise to attack while
they are still in the pass, where their numbers will count against them.
Ambush them from the slopes, lure them onto your blades and surround
them.’

‘A rock-strewn valley is no place for cavalry,’ said Aneltain. ‘We would
surrender the advantages that we possess.’

‘We will meet them upon the open field, and fight as Ellyrians,’ said
Finudel.

‘It is clear you have already set your minds on one course,’ growled
Alith. ‘No argument I can make will convince you of the error of your
actions. If you do not wish to hear my counsel, why did you ask me
here?’

‘And who are you to tell us better?’ said Finudel. ‘A dispossessed
prince; a wanderer with nothing but hate.’

‘If you would suffer the same fate as I, then do as you say,’ snarled
Alith. ‘Ride out in glory, with your banners streaming and your horns
ringing. You think that because you have defeated the druchii before
that you will have victory today? They do not fight on your terms, and
they will win. Unless you crush them, kill every one of them, they will
not relent. Morathi drives them on, and their commanders fear her far
more than they fear your knights and spears. Have you mages to match
their sorcery? If you win and they flee, have it in you to chase them
down, slay them as they run? Is it in your noble hearts to butcher and
kill, so that they will not return?’

‘Darkness cannot be defeated by further darkness,’ said Athielle. ‘Did
you not hear what I told you in Tor Elyr? It is because the druchii
despise peace, loathe life, that they must be defeated. If we become the
same, we have lost that which we fight for.’

‘Fools!’ said Alith. ‘I will have no part of this folly. The true
Naggarothi have already paid the price for thinking that they can stand
face-to-face against the might of Anlec. The corpses of my mother and
father are testament to that course of action.’

Alith stormed from the pavilion, scattering the Ellyrians in his path.
He strode through the camp, heedless of the shouts that followed him.
Despair vied with rage inside him: despair that the Ellyrians would die;
rage that the druchii would gain an important victory.

His captains met Alith as he entered the Naggarothi camp. They
immediately sensed his foul mood and followed in silence as he cut
between the assembled regiments towards his tent. A glare from Alith
halted them at the door as he ducked inside.

Alith sat listening to the musicians of the Ellyrians calling them to
the march. The ground trembled beneath the tread of horses and elves as
Finudel and Athielle mustered their army. Let them march to their
pointless deaths, he told himself.

It was Khillrallion who dared his foul temper, standing calmly upon the
threshold of the pavilion, hands behind his back.

‘The Ellyrians have broken camp, prince,’ he said quietly.

Alith did not reply.

‘Should we make ready to march as well?’

Alith looked up at Khillrallion.

‘We will follow behind,’ he said. ‘If they call for our aid, I will not
deny them.’

Khillrallion nodded and withdrew, leaving Alith with his tumultuous
thoughts.

Finudel and Athielle chose to make their stand upon the meadows of
Nairain Elyr, less than a day’s march from the mouth of Eagle Pass,
where the Irlana flows from the mountains and loops widely to the north
before continuing east towards the Inner Sea. The Ellyrians put their
infantry upon the right, with their flank protected by the river, while
their cavalry they kept to the left, giving them the freedom of the wide
fields to the south. Alith encamped his small army, four thousand in
all, even further to the south. Here he stayed within his tent, and
dismissed all visits from his lieutenants.

The following dawn Alith was roused from his sleep by Tharion.

‘One of the Ellyrians wishes to see you,’ said the captain.

Alith nodded and signalled for the messenger to be brought to the
pavilion. A few moments later Tharion entered with Aneltain in tow.
Alith nodded in greeting but did not rise from his cot.

‘The druchii have been spied by our scouts,’ said the Ellyrian. ‘They
will be upon us before noon.’

‘And you still intend to meet them in open battle?’ asked Alith.

‘There is no other choice,’ replied Aneltain.

‘Send your infantry across the river, and take your riders to the east,’
said Alith, his tone off-hand. ‘That is one alternative to throwing your
lives away in this pointless gesture.’

‘You know that we will not retreat,’ said Aneltain. He took a step
forwards, his expression imploring. ‘Fight with us and we can win.’

‘Four thousand spears and bows will not win this battle,’ said Alith.
‘Even Naggarothi spears and bows.’

‘Then at least promise that you will hold this position,’ said Aneltain.
‘At least give Finudel and Athielle your assurance that you will defend
the southern flank.’

Alith looked at Aneltain with a frown, sensing the accusation implicit
in the request.

‘I swore to defend Ellyrion as if these were my own lands,’ Alith said
sharply. ‘I do not make such oaths lightly. Though I do not agree on
this course of action, I will not abandon my allies.’

Aneltain’s relief was palpable as he bowed in thanks.

‘I remember a time when it was I that came to the aid of the Anars,’ he
said. ‘I am glad that I was not wrong to do so.’

Alith pushed himself from his bed and strode up to Aneltain, staring him
in the eye.

‘Perhaps you think that I owe you this favour?’ snarled Alith. ‘You
think that I feel some debt?’

Aneltain stepped back, aghast at Alith’s aggression. His expression of
gratitude became one of anger.

‘If you do not feel the debt, then I will not claim it,’ Aneltain said
fiercely. ‘If it does not matter to you that brave Ellyrians died
restoring Malekith to his throne, and Chracians and Yvressians as well,
then perhaps you should consider who it is that you wish to fight for.’

‘I do not fight for anyone!’ roared Alith, forcing Aneltain to retreat
quickly to the tent’s opening. ‘I fight against the druchii!’

With a venomous glare, Aneltain left, shouting for his horse to be
brought to him. Tharion directed a sharp glance at his prince.

‘Would you have us left with no allies?’ said the veteran captain.

‘No allies would be better than poor allies,’ Alith replied, slumping
back onto his bed. ‘They talk of honour and glory, as if that counted
for anything. They do not understand the manner of foe they fight, even
though they have looked it in the face a dozen times. Fear is all the
druchii understand, and fear is a power we can wield as well if we
choose. Morathi and her commanders do not fear the cavalry charge or the
volley of arrows. No, it is the darkness they have unleashed, it causes
them to pause for thought, wakes them in the cold hours before dawn.
They look over their own shoulders, dreading to see who wields the knife
for them. Fear binds them more than loyalty, and with fear we will break
them apart.’

Tharion considered this for a moment, doubts scribed upon his brow.

‘What is it that you fear, Alith?’

‘Nothing,’ he said. ‘There is no pain that can be visited upon me that I
have not already felt. There is no torment I can suffer that my memories
do not inflict upon me every day. I have nothing left to be taken away,
save this existence that hurts me with every breath. I do not seek
death, but I have no fear of being sent to Mirai. There I will find my
family again, and take vengeance upon those that killed them. Beyond
even death my hatred will continue.’

Tharion shuddered and turned away, terrified by the look in Alith’s eye.

Alith stood at the edge of the Naggarothi camp, looking out over the two
armies as the druchii advanced. In long lines of silver, white and blue,
the Ellyrians stood their ground against the encroaching black host.
White steeds stamped and whinnied, sharing the excitement of their
riders. A hundred banners streamed from silver poles, and golden horns
were lifted to lips to let forth peals of defiance.

The reaver knights were split into two forces, one led by Finudel, the
other by Athielle. The princess sat upon Silvermane at the head of the
closest division, her long hair flying free in the wind, her slender
form encased in silver armour studded with sapphires. In her hand she
held aloft a white sword, the winterblade Amreir, and upon her left arm
hung a shield in the shape of a horse’s head, its mane a flowing mass of
golden thread.

Finudel was no less impressive. He carried Cadrathi, the starblade lance
forged by Caledor Dragontamer, whose head burned with a golden flame. In
gold panoply sat the prince, a cloak of deep red flapping from his
shoulders. His steed Snowhoof, sister to Athielle’s mount, was enveloped
by a long caparison of gilded ithilmar, every scale of armour inscribed
with a rune of protection.

Studying the druchii, Alith saw that their standards also bore runes, of
bloodthirsty gods and wicked goddesses. Many had painted or embossed
symbols of cults upon their shields, twisted script that seethed with
dark magic. In columns the Naggarothi advanced, black and silver snakes
whose coming was heralded by the tramping of thousands of boots.

The knights of Anlec turned to the south, to face the reavers. Harsh
battle cries and shrill horns announced their challenge to Finudel and
Athielle while black and purple pennants snapped upon golden lances.
Their steeds were black, with chamfrons of silvered armour decked with
blades, flanks covered with shining links of mail.

Sorcerers and sorceresses there were too, prowling amongst the
regiments, their magic coiling and weaving around them. Dark clouds
swathed the sky at their commands, flickering with lightning, thunder
matching the crash of the army’s advance. The shadow of the storm swept
over the plains, shrouding both armies in gloom.

Glancing at the heavy skies, Alith saw a dark shape, enormous and
winged. Despite his earlier words, for a moment he was gripped with fear
as the dragon circled menacingly. His father’s bloodied face flashed in
front of Alith, and his muscles twitched with the memory of the terror
that had filled him.

‘Kheranion,’ Alith snarled, allowing his anger to flood away all dread.

Turning on his heel, Alith shouted for his captains. They came running
from across the camp and waited breathlessly for their commander’s
decree.

‘We attack,’ said Alith. ‘Sound the muster, gather your regiments. Today
we will slay these druchii dogs and send a message back to Anlec. Bring
me the head of Kheranion.’

There was no argument from the lieutenants, who hurried back to their
companies, calling for musicians and banner bearers to signal the
attack. Alith returned to his tent and took up bow and arrows, given to
him by Khillrallion.

‘Shadows, to me!’ he called upon returning outside. Soon he stood at the
centre of a circle of black-swathed archers, bitter survivors of Dark
Fen. ‘Today I lead the Shadows again. The enemy bring their own
darkness, and that suits us well. Show no mercy. Every arrow brings
death. Every sword thrust is vengeance. Every drop of blood is owed to
us. We will be the nightmares once more, and the druchii will remember
well why they fear the Shadows.’

In all, more than two hundred of the Shadows had survived the disaster
at Dark Fen, and clad in their black cloaks they followed Alith
westwards, circling around the right flank of the druchii host. The rest
of Alith’s army stood ready at the camp, with orders to engage the enemy
if they came too close. Not until Alith returned from his foray were
they to move forwards.

It was the druchii that started the battle. They had brought with them
repeater bolt throwers: war engines that hurled half-a-dozen spear-sized
shafts with each salvo. The opening volley from ten of these machines
screamed into the air above the advancing druchii and plunged down into
the Ellyrian infantry. To Alith it was clear that Kheranion thought the
reaver knights unable to match his columns and sought to destroy the
spearmen and archers first and then drive away the cavalry with weight
of numbers.

Alith found it curious that the druchii prince remained in the skies,
observing the unfolding battle from the back of his black dragon. At
Dark Fen he had only become involved when it was obvious that the
Naggarothi were losing. Perhaps he was a coward? Or perhaps there was
some other reason Kheranion feared to commit to the fighting.

As he pondered this, Alith signalled for the Shadows to halt. The long
grass of Ellyrion reached above waist height and provided ample
concealment for the scouts. The storm overhead continued to growl and
rumble, growing in intensity, shrouding the meadows with a yellowing
gloom close to twilight. In the darkness, the Shadows readied their bows
and waited for Alith’s next command.

As he looked at the druchii army, Alith was surprised to see that they
had brought no hydras with them. He had no idea why they had left their
monstrous war-beasts behind, but was pleased that such was the case,
though it was small comfort when he remembered the dragon climbing and
swooping through the storm clouds.

The druchii halted their advance just out of the range of the Ellyrian
bows as the repeater bolt throwers continued to unleash their deadly
volleys. The closest of the war machines was about four hundred paces
from the Shadows, its crew working quickly to replace an empty magazine.

‘Split into fives, target the bolt throwers,’ Alith told the others. ‘I
want the crews dead.’

In small groups, the Shadows broke away, flitting through the long grass
towards their targets. Alith and his four companions headed directly for
the closest while the other Shadows fanned out around the rest of the
battery. Companies of spearmen stood close to the war machines, guarding
against any attempt by the Ellyrians to circumvent the main line, but
their attention was focussed to the east not the south and the Shadows
approached unseen.

Alith stooped in a crouch about seventy paces from the repeater bolt
thrower. He fitted an arrow to his bowstring, rising just enough to see
his target. The bolt thrower was crewed by two druchii, protected by
breastplates and helms but no heavier armour. Having removed the empty
shaft box from the top of their engine, they were carrying a new
magazine of bolts back to the war machine.

‘Now,’ Alith said calmly, sighting upon the leftmost of the two druchii.

With a gentle exhalation, Alith loosed his string and the black-fletched
arrow whistled just above the tips of the grass, taking his target in
the right shoulder. Another shaft hit him in the thigh, punching deep
through the flesh and out the other side. The druchii dropped his
burden, spinning to the ground while three arrows found their mark on
his companion, one of them hitting him through the eyehole of his
helmet’s mask.

The only sound was the clatter of the magazine tumbling from their dead
grip, easily lost in the wind. Alith dropped down and made his way to
the war engine as quickly as possible, exchanging his bow for a long
hunting knife. With occasional glances to check that he was unobserved,
he reached the bolt thrower.

Alith sawed at the rope coils that provided the tension for the war
engine’s mechanism. His sharp blade quickly parted the cords twisted
around one launching arm and the rope fell slack. It would take hours to
restring the machine, but for good measure Alith used the tip of his
knife to pry out the trigger mechanism from the main body of the
machine. He levered out several springs from the delicate workings and
tossed them into the grass.

Satisfied with his work, Alith began to head back southwards, keeping a
close eye on the nearby druchii regiments.

As the other Shadows unleashed their attacks and more war machines were
dismantled, the captains of the spear companies realised something was
amiss. The rate of fire had fallen dramatically and officers turned back
towards the bolt throwers to find out why. There were shouts of alarm as
black shadows flitted between the engines. The captains’ commands
ringing in their ears, the druchii warriors brought up their weapons,
their eyes searching the grass for the mysterious archers.

Alith made a long screech of a hawk, the signal for the Shadows to
withdraw and rejoin him. He kept his eye on the closest regiment of
druchii, who had begun to wheel in his direction, though they were
several hundred paces away. Alith could not believe that the Shadows had
been seen, but then amongst the front rank of armoured warriors he spied
a slender, semi-naked figure.

It was a sorceress, her long white hair flickering like the lightning in
the clouds above, her pale flesh painted with runes of mystical power.
She lifted a slender arm and pointed in Alith’s direction, turning to
the captain marching beside her.

Even as Alith saw motes of magic dancing from the sorceress’s fingertips
he felt a strange pressure, a build-up of dark magic in the air around
him. A moment later a crackling bolt of energy leapt from the druchii’s
hand, exploding just to Alith’s left, hurling him sideways with the
force of its detonation.

Picking himself up, Alith saw a charred circle of grass, at its centre
the distorted, broken body of Nermyrrin, her skin blackened, her eyes
nothing more than dark holes from which two wisps of vapour coiled. More
­magical blasts leapt across the meadow as the sorceress advanced with
her bodyguard, setting the grass alight and hurling smoking bodies into
the air.

‘Fall back!’ Alith called out, picking up the remains of Nermyrrin. She
was strangely cold to the touch. ‘Bring the dead!’

One hundred druchii spearmen locked their shields as the Shadows covered
their retreat with arrows. The sorceress stepped back into the press of
bodies, shielding herself from harm as black shafts felled the warriors
around her.

Alith stowed his bow and hiked Nermyrrin’s body over his shoulder.
Turning away from the druchii, he hurried back through the grass,
sensing the presence of the other Shadows around him moving swiftly but
stealthily across the meadow. A glance back showed that the spearmen had
been called to a halt, and mocking shouts followed the Shadows as they
headed back to the Anar camp.

The druchii’s contempt was ill-placed. Half of the druchii war machines
could no longer fire and the crews of several more were dead. Without
the weight of fire from their machines to pressurise the Ellyrians into
an attack, the druchii were forced to continue their advance. Drums
rolled once more and horns blared as the massive shape of Kheranion’s
dragon swooped down over his army. The monstrous creature landed in the
midst of the host for a moment, the druchii general atop its scaled back
bellowing orders to his lieutenants. Alith had barely taken three
breaths before the dragon sought the skies again, lifting itself higher
and higher with powerful sweeps of its clawed wings.

Alith noted this with interest, realising that Kheranion was taking
great pains to spend as little time as possible on the ground. Clearly
the strength of the dragon and its lance-wielding rider were on the
attack, smashing into the foe at speed. For the moment, Alith could
think of no way of grounding his enemy though, and so turned his
attention to other matters.

Neither side wanted to commit themselves to the attack. The Naggarothi
and Ellyrians closed within bow range of each other, exchanging clouds
of arrows. The reavers led by Athielle darted forwards to loose volleys
before wheeling away out of range of the repeater crossbows of their
enemies. All the while the menacing knights of Anlec stayed in the
reserve, waiting for the crucial moment to unleash their devastating
charge.

The druchii wizards conjured up storms of blades that slashed through
the Ellyrians, and cast spells that wracked their enemies with bone-deep
agony, searing their flesh and stripping away skin. There was little the
Ellyrians could do to counter these spells, and they were suffering
badly from the disadvantage.

Alith called his Shadows to him again as they gathered on the edge of
the camp.

‘Hunt the sorcerers,’ he said. ‘Make every shot count. Attack and then
fade north and we’ll regroup on the right of the Ellyrian infantry.’

The Shadows nodded their understanding and melted away into the
greyness, Alith following. For some it would appear foolhardy, sneaking
between two armies about to engage each other. Alith knew better. Across
Nagarythe the Shadows had tormented and terrorised the druchii using the
same tactics. Approach close and unseen, kill the enemy and then vanish.
It made soldiers think they faced more foes than they actually did, and
made commanders fear for their safety. The disruption would serve the
Ellyrians well and Alith hoped that Finudel and Athielle were wise
enough to take advantage when the time came.

Alith approached the closest druchii at a crouch, sliding effortlessly
amongst the grass blades, barely another ripple amongst the swaying
caused by the storm winds. He was close enough to hear the chatter of
the spearmen as they stood in their ranks waiting for the order to
advance.

‘These horse fondlers are no match for Naggarothi blades,’ one
lieutenant said, drawing harsh laughter from her comrades.

That the druchii still dared to call themselves Naggarothi bit at
Alith’s temper. They had spurned all right to that claim when they had
turned on Malekith, the heir of Aenarion, and cast him from Anlec. They
were traitors – dark elves – and nothing more. Alith forced himself to
relax, aware that the enemy were little more than two dozen paces away.
With deliberate slowness, he drew up the hood of his cloak, whispering a
few words to draw his hunter’s magic into its fibres.

Alith felt the vaguest shimmer of energy tingle on his head and
shoulders. To him nothing changed. To another, Alith would have
disappeared; one moment a black-swathed figure, the next nothing more
than bending grass stems. Thus concealed, Alith rose gently until he was
standing at his full height. The front rank of the spearmen was directly
ahead of him, so close he could have thrown an arrow at them. Their
captain was a female druchii with red-dyed hair bound into plaits with
bloody sinew, and a scar cut across her face from chin to right ear. Her
eyes were a piercing ice-blue and Alith resisted the urge to flinch as
that cold gaze was directed straight at him. The captain did not see him
at all, her eyes staring just past his shoulder at the Ellyrians some
distance beyond.

Alith took his bow from the quiver on his shoulder and calmly set an
arrow to the string. Pulling up his weapon, he sighted along the shaft,
lining up the arrowhead with the captain’s throat. Alith enjoyed the
tension as he pulled back his right arm. He revelled in the moment, the
captain ignorant of her imminent death, the power he held to bring about
that fate. A satisfied smile danced briefly on Alith’s lips as he
watched the druchii turn at some comment from her standard bearer,
grinning with teeth filed to sharp points.

Without ceremony, Alith let go of the bowstring. The arrow hit its mark
perfectly, spearing through the captain’s neck. Blood frothed from her
mouth and sprayed from the wound as she collapsed, spattering the other
druchii. Shouts of horror rippled through the dark elves and Alith
savoured the uncertainty, the panic. Alith silently lowered himself back
into the grass and slipped away.

As he crept northwards he spared glances for the work of the other
Shadows. Alith watched as company banners fell, sorceresses were pinned
by shafts and lieutenants toppled to the ground with grievous wounds.
Alith could feel the disconcertion spreading through the druchii ranks,
but not all of the Shadows went unobserved. Alith also saw repeater
crossbows scything through the long grass with their missiles, and
companies of warriors dashing forwards with their spears to hunt down
their ambushers.

Though the attacks of the Shadows caused scattered confusion, the
druchii pressed on, sweeping Alith’s warriors northwards before them.
Thirty of his warriors did not join their leader, their bodies lost out
on the field. The black host of Kheranion resolutely advanced into the
teeth of the arrow-storm coming from the Ellyrians, forcing Finudel to
order his infantry to withdraw towards the river. The reaver knights
formed up to protect the retreat as Alith and his Shadows joined the
move, stalking unseen alongside the Ellyrian regiments.

Kheranion’s commanders split their force, sending a third of their
infantry towards the retreating Ellyrians while the remaining spearmen
and archers advanced on the reavers, the knights of Anlec ominously
shadowing them. Finudel and Athielle ordered their riders south knowing
that they could not contend with the enemy’s numbers directly. Alith was
horrified to see the Ellyrians thus split, the druchii pushing forwards
between the two wings of the infantry and cavalry.

Hidden within the high grass on the bank of the Irlana, Alith realised
he had made the same mistake. The rest of his army was still at the camp
to the south, on the other side of the druchii host. Alith instinctively
looked into the storm clouds, seeking Kheranion’s presence. He saw the
dragon to the west, beating its wings slowly to keep station in the
strong wind, drifting southwards above the reavers as the Ellyrians
pulled back from the attacking army.

Kheranion’s full plan was then revealed. The druchii infantry lengthened
their lines, creating a barrier that kept the Ellyrian infantry penned
in at the edge of the river. The black-armoured Anlec cavalry came
forwards at last, winding columns of grim riders snaking between the
companies of spearmen and repeater crossbowmen, their lances lowered. In
their hundreds the knights gathered, sinister squadrons of black and
silver, their faces hidden behind ornate visors.

‘There’s nowhere else to run,’ said Lierenduir, crouched close at hand
to Alith’s left. ‘Those knights will sweep the Ellyrians into the
water.’

‘At least that means the Ellyrians are forced to fight,’ replied Alith.
‘Better that they battle to the last elf than try to flee.’

‘What of us?’

Alith looked around, analysing the immediate vicinity. The river
broadened to the west where the meadows were flat, opening out into a
ford at least five hundred paces wide. On the far side the trees of
Athelian Toryr stretched down almost to the northern bank, the depths of
the forest hidden in shadow. Alith nodded towards the crossing.

‘When the charge comes, head for the ford,’ he said. ‘We’ll disappear
into the woods if necessary.’

‘What about the others at the camp?’

‘There is nothing we can do for them at the moment,’ said Alith. ‘We can
try to draw some of the druchii across the river and into the trees, to
buy the others time to head south and join with Caledor.’

Lierenduir looked pained at Alith’s fatalism but said nothing, turning
his gaze back to the ranks of the Anlec knights. Ellyrians and
Naggarothi waited in disturbing silence, each hoping for the other to
show some indication of their intent. With several of the druchii magic
wielders slain by the Shadows, the storm above was abating, though
thunder broke the quiet occasionally and flickers of lightning crawled
across the thinning clouds. To the east, shafts of sunlight pierced the
gloom, shining from the armour of the reavers. At this distance Athielle
was nothing more than a golden gleam amongst the silver and Alith was
suddenly concerned for the princess. Against the dark swathe of
Nagarythe the army of Ellyrion seemed pitifully few.

Alith thought back to the sweeping bridges and boulevards of Tor Elyr,
the white towers that would be blackened and broken if the druchii were
victorious. He cared nothing for the city itself, but the memory of his
coming there, of meeting Athielle, lingered with him. Her refusal to
allow the city to be sacked told Alith all he needed to know about
Athielle, of her love for her people and her home. That thought brought
more painful memories, of scorched Elanardris and Gerithon nailed upon
the door to the manse.

In his mind’s eye the two scenes overlapped, so that he saw the
arena-hall of Tor Elyr, Finudel and Athielle dead upon their thrones,
elves and steeds lying in bloodied heaps around them. Such was the fate
they had dared by resisting the druchii, and Alith felt a stab of shame
at his harsh words to them. They had chosen to risk all, not for glory
or honour, but for survival. Athielle’s warning repeated over and over
in his mind:

‘It is because the druchii despise peace, loathe life, that they must be
defeated. If we become the same, we have lost that which we fight for.’

Looking across the meadows of Ellyrion it was as if she said the words
again, so clear was her voice to Alith. He fixed his gaze upon that
distant shimmer of gold, dismissing the nightmare visions of destruction
that haunted him. Then Alith turned his eyes upon the ranks of the
druchii, the unending lines of black and purple, the wicked signs upon
standards proclaiming their bearers’ unfettered depravity.

‘Gods curse us all,’ he snarled, standing up fully.

The other Shadows cast glances at their leader, brows creased with
concern. With an almost lazy slowness, Alith nocked an arrow to his bow
and sighted upon the Anlec knights. With a grim smile, he loosed the
shaft. He followed its course as it looped over the meadow and struck a
knight’s horse in the neck. The steed reared and then fell, crushing its
rider beneath its dark bulk.

As Alith fitted and loosed another shaft, the Shadows joined him, a
ragged volley of arrows arcing towards the knights. Several more of the
riders fell to the missiles, their black-armoured corpses tumbling from
their saddles.

Alith turned to Khillrallion.

‘Give me your hunting horn,’ said Alith.

Khillrallion pulled out a curled ram’s horn from his belt and ran
through the grass to place it in Alith’s outstretched hand. Alith looked
at the gold bands that coiled around the horn, seeing flickers of
lightning reflected in the metal.

Alith lifted the instrument to his lips and blew a note that rose in
pitch and then swung into a long bass tone. Squadrons of knights were
turning their horses towards the sound, their angry shouts heard even at
this distance. Again and again Alith sounded the notes, the Anar call
for attack. Tossing the horn back to Khillrallion, Alith knew not
whether Tharion would hear the command, or how the captain would
respond. All Alith was sure of was that today would not be the day he
ran away to fight another day.

Today Alith would stand and fight, and fall if necessary.

Alith gave silent praise to Finudel, or perhaps Athielle, as he heard
answering horn blows from the Ellyrian host. Spurred into action, the
archers on the river bank lifted their weapons and unleashed a salvo
against the druchii knights, a shower of white-feathered shafts
glittering through the storm gloom. The Shadows added their own arrows
to the attack. The spearmen raised their voices in a bold war cry and
formed up for the advance.

Ahead of them, the knights of Anlec were thrown into disarray. Alith
could see their officers arguing, and judged that they debated whether
to confront the threat of the infantry or turn their attention to the
hated lord of the Anars that had taunted them. Indecision reigned for a
while and the Ellyrian infantry closed in under the cover of a hail of
arrows.

Some semblance of order was finally restored and three squadrons of
knights wheeled towards Alith, six hundred riders in all. The rest of
the cavalry urged their mounts, breaking into a run towards the
advancing Ellyrians.

Alith had no time to spare for the coming clash; the knights were
bearing down fast upon the Shadows.

‘Into the river!’ Alith cried, knowing that they would not outpace the
­riders in a race to the ford.

Alith leaped from the high bank into the flowing waters as the knights
broke into a charge. His breath was knocked from him by the cold river,
and for a moment the current buffeted and wrestled him beneath the
surface. Breaking back into the air, Alith unfastened his cloak, which
hung like an anchor from his shoulders. Freed of its constrictions,
Alith struck out towards the far shore with confident strokes, the other
Shadows around him in a shoal of black and grey, discarded cloaks
swirling downriver.

A glance over his shoulder showed Alith that the knights had reined in
their mounts at the water’s edge, unwilling to plunge into the swirling
waters. Insults and curses followed the Shadows as they swam away,
before the knights’ officers signalled for them to continue west towards
the ford.

Halfway across the river, Alith looked to his left, at the receding
knights, and tried to judge whether they would complete their circuitous
journey to the far side before the Shadows. He was confident that the
riders would still be crossing the ford when he set foot on dry land. To
the right, the battle between the Ellyrian infantry and the druchii was
in full tumult. The other knights had smashed through several of the
spear companies already, their path marked by a litter of bodies. From
the river’s surface, Alith could see nothing of the reavers or his own
army and he hoped that they fared well. Knowing that he could do nothing
else for the moment, Alith focussed on swimming, driving himself swiftly
through the water.

Panting, Alith dragged himself through the reeds and pulled himself up
onto the northern bank of the Irlana. The other Shadows followed,
slipping into the grass like dark otters, glistening with water. Alith
shuddered from the wet, the warmth of the sun still kept at bay by the
dark clouds, the wind stealing the heat from his body.

‘What now, prince?’ asked Khillrallion. Alith was taken aback for a
moment by the use of his proper title. Bedraggled and cold, he certainly
did not feel like a prince. ‘Alith? What now?’

Westwards Alith could see the first of the knights surging from the ford
amidst spumes of water. Northwards stood the dark forest of Athelian
Toryr, sanctuary from the Anlec riders.

‘Into the woods,’ Alith said, wringing water from his sodden shirt.
‘We’ll try to lure them into the trees. Get up into the branches and
shoot them from out of harm’s way.’

The Shadows did not hurry; there was plenty of time to reach the forest
before the knights would catch them. They restrung their bows with dry
cord taken from waxed pouches, emptied water from their quivers and
flicked droplets from the feathers of their arrows in preparation for
the fight to come.

They were just over halfway to the trees, perhaps a hundred paces from
safety, when the foremost Shadows stopped and signalled for the others
to wait. Alith hurried forwards to where Khillrallion was staring
beneath the thick canopy of leaves.

‘I think I saw something moving,’ said Khillrallion.

‘Think you saw?’ said Alith, peering into the darkness. ‘Saw what?’

‘I don’t know,’ Khillrallion replied with a shrug. ‘A movement in the
shadows. See, there it is again!’

Alith followed the direction of Khillrallion’s finger under the eaves of
the wood. Sure enough, there was something in the darkness, indistinct
and motionless. Alith knew immediately what it was: a raven herald.

As he looked, he saw more riders sitting silently in the gloom upon
unmoving steeds, little more than patches of deeper black amongst the
shadows. Alith could not focus on them and could not accurately judge
their number, but at a guess he thought it to be more than several dozen
rather than less.

‘Morai-heg has a cruel humour,’ hissed Alith with another glance
westwards. Most of the knights had crossed the river, and the first
squadron had formed up and was advancing swiftly and purposefully
towards the Shadows.

Khillrallion gave Alith a look of incomprehension.

‘Raven heralds,’ Alith explained. Khillrallion looked back at the woods
with fresh fear, his hand reaching for an arrow. The other Shadows
followed his lead as word of the danger spread in whispers, readying
their weapons.

‘They will have surely seen us,’ said Alith. ‘Why do they not attack?’

‘Perhaps they would prefer to have us run down by the knights rather
than risk themselves?’

Alith was not satisfied by this answer and continued to stare at the
vague shapes between the trees as if he could discern their intent in
some way. The noise of the approaching knights grew louder but Alith
refused to take his eyes from the raven heralds. What were they waiting
for?

As if in reply, something moved through the tops of the closest trees. A
flitting black shape landed on a branch at the edge of the woods. A
single crow lifted its head and let out a loud cawing.

Alith laughed for a moment, not quite sure he believed what he saw and
heard. The other Shadows were looking at him quizzically as Alith stood
up.

‘Target the knights,’ Alith said, pulling free his bow.

‘The heralds will run us down in a heartbeat!’ protested Galathrin.

Alith looked at the Shadows, seeing uncertainty in their expressions.

‘Trust me,’ he said before redirecting his attention to the approaching
cavalry, nocking an arrow to his bowstring.

Alith felt not a moment of doubt as the knights of Anlec broke into a
gallop. Everything dropped away: his worries, his fears, his anger.
Alith stood in a moment of calm, his breath coming slow and steady,
limbs light, movements precise and focussed. As he looked at the
approaching riders, Alith saw every detail as if it were frozen in time.
Droplets flew from the manes and tails of their horses, surrounding the
squadrons in a fine mist. Water glistened on the black rings of the
knights’ armour. Golden lancetips and silvered helms sparkled with
reflected lightning.

At three hundred paces Alith took aim at the knight bearing the banner
of the closest squadron, closing fast. The arrow sped into the
storm-wracked sky and then fell, striking the charging knight in the
head. As he slumped sideways, the standard fell from his grasp but the
following knight swayed to one side and snatched up the falling flag
before it touched the ground. Alith let fly another arrow, but the wind
gusted and carried the shot short to disappear into the grass in front
of the knights. Adjusting his aim, Alith shot again, the shaft spinning
away from the raised shield of another knight.

At two hundred and fifty paces, the rest of the Shadows were also
shooting. Alith reached back and his fingers fell upon a lone flight,
the last of his arrows. He took it out with measured slowness and
examined its shaft and feathers for any damage. There was none and he
fitted it to his bowstring, his hands working without conscious thought.

At two hundred paces, Alith released the string and his final shot
soared towards the knights. It struck one of the lead riders in the
shoulder of his lance arm, spinning him from his mount to be trampled by
the hooves of the following knights. Alith placed his bow in its quiver
and drew his sword.

At one hundred and fifty paces Alith saw blackness moving under the
trees. The ground was shuddering under the impact of the charging
horses, but it was the stillness of the woods that drew his attention.
In a long line the raven heralds burst from the woods, eerily silent.
Several hundred feather-cloaked riders streamed from between the trees,
ghosted by a strange darkness, moving impossibly fast. Behind them came
a great flock of beating black wings and raucous cries, hundreds of
birds pouring from the woods in a billowing cloud of feathers and
snapping beaks.

The raven heralds loosed a volley from their bows as they closed, the
squadron of knights closest to the woods thrown into a confusion of
falling knights and tumbling horses. Stowing their bows, the riders
brought out narrow-bladed spears, tips lowered full-tilt.

At one hundred paces from Alith the raven heralds hit the knights,
driving into their flank like a black dagger. Caught utterly unawares,
dozens of the Anlec cavalry were cast down by the spears of their
attackers. The shrill whinnies of horses and the panicked shouts of
elves rebounded from the trees as the raven heralds continued on,
cutting through the knights towards the river.

The lead riders turned to see what had happened, dragging their mounts
to a standstill.

‘Attack!’ bellowed Alith, raising his sword and breaking into a run. He
did not look to see if the other Shadows followed.

The closest knights twisted left and right, caught between the raven
­heralds and the Shadows. Alith covered the gap at a full sprint, his
blood surging as he sped through the long grass.

One of the knights dragged his horse around and tried to charge but
Alith was too close, nimbly leaping aside from the lance point directed
towards his chest. With a shout, Alith grabbed the knight’s arm and used
it as a lever to jump up behind the rider.

Alith drove his sword into the knight’s back, the point cleaving through
cloak and mail. Tossing the elf’s body aside, Alith slipped from the
steed’s haunch as it galloped on, the knight’s dead grip tight on the
reins, his body dragged through the grass.

Alith threw himself down as another lance flashed towards him, its point
passing a hair’s-breadth above his head. Diving between the legs of the
knight’s steed, Alith swept upwards with his blade, cutting through the
cinch of the saddle. With a shout the knight toppled sideways, crashing
heavily beside Alith. The Anar prince drove the point of his sword
through the knight’s visor and then looked for a new foe.

Ahead the fight between the knights and heralds had become a vicious
melee. Swords rang against each other and curses were spat. Horses
fought as well, flailing hooves and gnashing teeth at one another while
their riders slashed and stabbed. It was no place for an elf on foot and
Alith kept his distance with the Shadows, looking for stragglers to
ambush.

A knight staggered from the fighting, clutching his arm. Blood flowed
freely down his mail skirt as he fell to one knee. The Shadows pounced,
driving their swords into him. As Alith wrenched his blade from the dead
knight’s chest, he cast his eye over the battle.

The Anlec cavalry had been beaten on the first charge, yet though they
had lost more than half their number they fought on stubbornly. Those of
Alith’s followers that still had arrows occasionally loosed a shaft into
the swirling press of bodies, picking off such targets as presented
themselves. Naggarothi corpses of both sides were trampled beneath
iron-shod hooves while the wounded tried crawling to safety. The Shadows
tended to the injured raven heralds with bandages torn from their
cloaks; and to the wounded knights with their swords.

The crows whirled and swooped around the fight, adding to the confusion.
They fluttered into the faces of the knights, pecking at exposed lips,
digging their beaks into visors seeking eyes. Some of the flock had
settled on the corpses, tearing at cloaks and robes, clawing at any
exposed skin, peeling strands of bloody flesh from the fallen.

Alith noted that the carrion birds feasted only on the slain knights,
avoiding the dozens of raven herald corpses that were heaped in the long
grass.

The knights fought to the last elf, a captain clad in ornately etched
armour of silver and gold. He had discarded his lance and struck out at
his enemies with a long sword whose blade flashed with magical fire,
every blow he landed cutting through body or limb with ease. His
identity was concealed by a full helm styled in a daemonic, snarling
face, his eyes hidden in shadow. As his horse turned and wheeled, the
raven heralds pulled back from the druchii officer, a dozen of their
number already lying dead around him.

Without any spoken command, several of the riders stowed their spears
and brought out their bows as the circle widened around the captain. The
druchii realised what was about to happen and kicked his steed into a
run, levelling his sword for a final charge. Eight arrows converged on
him before he reached the raven heralds, taking him in the head and
chest, flinging him ignominiously to the blood-wetted grass amongst
those he had slain.

The raven heralds gave no cheers of victory, waved no weapons in
celebration. They weaved their horses around the piles of the dead and
injured, their speartips seeking any surviving foes. Alith watched
without emotion as they plunged their spears into any knights still
drawing breath, and then he turned away to look to the south.

Alith could not see much beyond the river, only a chaotic mass of white
and black pitted against each other. He saw the banners of Ellyrion
mingled with the standards of Nagarythe, and could make little sense of
the confusion. Manoeuvre and strategy had played its part, but the
battle would ultimately be decided by strength, skill and courage.

A shadow fell across Alith and he looked up into the face of a raven
­herald. He held a blood-stained spear in his right hand, his arms and
gloves slick with crimson. Emerald eyes shone from the depths of his
hood and Alith smiled.

‘Morai-heg must have some devious plan for me indeed, to save me once
again,’ said the lord of the Anars.

‘It was not The Allseeing One that brought me here,’ replied Elthyrior.

‘Then by what guidance do you come to my rescue?’

‘By the request of Princess Athielle,’ said Elthyrior. ‘On the first
night after our arrival, she asked me to return north and bring back
those heralds that still opposed the darkness of Anlec.’

‘Your intervention is timely, nonetheless,’ said Alith.

‘The battle is not yet won,’ Elthyrior said, nodding out across the
river. ‘Finudel and Athielle are attacking and Kheranion makes his final
move.’

Alith spun quickly and searched the skies. To the south-east a black
shape descended like a thunderbolt. Wings furled, thick vapour streaming
from its mouth and nostrils, the black dragon plunged earthwards towards
the reavers. For a moment it seemed as if the beast would slam into the
ground, but at the last moment its wings flared open and the dragon
levelled just above head height, its claws raking a massive furrow
through the ranks of the Ellyrian riders, carving through elf and steed
alike. As the monster climbed back into the sky it lifted up two more
riders, flinging them to a bone-crushing death amongst their kin as it
banked away.

Alith saw this destruction at a distance, unmoved until his eyes fell
upon the small shape of a golden rider: Athielle. The dragon soared over
her reavers, arrows pattering harmlessly from its thick hide.

Alith cast about for a spare steed, for there were many left riderless
after the fighting. He ran to the closest, the unarmoured horse of a
dead herald, and leaped onto its back.

‘What do you think you can achieve, Alith?’

Alith did not reply, but simply urged the horse into a gallop, heading
for the ford. He glanced over his shoulder constantly, keeping watch on
the dragon as it circled and dived down, mauling yet more Ellyrians
before spiralling back towards the clouds. At this distance Alith could
hear nothing of the slaughter. The carnage being wrought was like a
tableau picked out in a tapestry, a representation of something horrific
yet almost beautiful.

Water splashed up Alith’s legs as his steed forged across the ford but
he did not notice, nor did he feel the bite of the wind on his skin or
hear the splash of the river. His eyes were fixed on Athielle and her
reavers; Finudel’s companies of riders were already driving into the
rear of the druchii fighting close to the river. The dragon continued to
menace the Ellyrian cavalry; with fang and noxious breath it gouged
holes in the reavers. Many of the riders were fleeing the beast, but
around Athielle a knot of several hundred held their courage, sending
showers of ineffectual arrows towards their monstrous tormentor.

The horse reached the opposite bank and surged up through the reeds,
almost toppling Alith. He swayed wildly and as he righted himself his
gaze passed to the south. For a moment all thoughts of Athielle and the
black dragon were dispelled.

Alith saw his army marching northwards to the aid of the princess, but
it was not this that stunned him so. Behind them came another host, many
thousands strong, in lines of silver, green and red. Above the army four
lithe shapes swept through the air, two red and two a deep blue in
colour.

The dragon princes of Caledor!

Alith called his steed to halt with a word and sat in amazement as the
four dragons glided effortlessly over the plains, flying so low that
their wingtips almost brushed the grass. Fire snaked from their mouths,
leaving a trail of grey haze whipped into vortices by their beating
wings. Each dragon bore a rider upon a throne, long pennants of red and
green streaming from poles and lance tips.

Alith gave a shout of wordless joy at the sight, and then fell silent,
admiring the power and grace of the dragons as they swept onwards
towards Kheranion’s army. The druchii commander seemed unaware of his
peril as he and his monstrous steed ravaged Athielle’s bodyguard.

Two of the Caledorians broke to the left, heading towards the battle at
the river. They flew past Alith barely fifty paces away, gusts of wind
from the dragons’ wings washing over Alith as they sped on towards their
foes. The other two dragon riders peeled to the right, straight towards
Kheranion.

The druchii prince laughed as he plunged his lance through the gut of
another Ellyrian. Beneath him, Bloodfang tore and ripped and shredded
with teeth and claws, revelling in the slaughter. Kheranion fixed his
eyes upon the gold-armoured princess, imagining the agonising delights
he would visit upon her that night. He would take her alive, and her
brother, and shame them both before handing their broken remains to the
priests and priestesses of Khaine.

With this in mind, Kheranion wrenched back on the gilded chains that
served as Bloodfang’s reins, arms straining to pull in the beast’s
bloodthirsty enthusiasm. The dragon swept a rider from his horse with
raking claws and looked back at its master, lips rippling with
annoyance.

‘Do not harm the princess!’ Kheranion commanded. ‘She is mine!’

Bloodfang gave a growl of disappointment but offered no argument,
turning his bloody attentions back on the Ellyrians. His jaws snapped
shut around the head of a horse, decapitating it in one bite. A lash of
Bloodfang’s barbed tail speared three more riders, buckling
breastplates, smashing ribs and pulverising vital organs.

The path was almost clear to Athielle; barely a dozen more reavers stood
in Kheranion’s way. He could see the princess clearly as she fixed him
with a contemptuous stare from beneath the flowing waves of her long
hair. Kheranion wondered how defiant she would be when that hair had
been cut from her scalp and her beautiful features had felt the caress
of a dozen blades. The prospect sent a thrill of excitement through the
prince and he urged Bloodfang forwards again.

Bloodfang took a step, striking out with a clawed wing to send more
knights tumbling, and then stopped. The dragon arched his neck, nostrils
flaring, and then turned suddenly to the left.

‘What are you doing?’ demanded Kheranion, heaving back on the chains
with all of his strength.

Bloodfang ignored his question and bunched his muscles, ready to spring
into the air. Kheranion quickly cast about for the source of the
dragon’s distemper. Looking south the prince saw two immense shapes
hurtling through the sky towards him.

‘Khaine’s bloody mercies,’ Kheranion whispered as Bloodfang hurled
himself into the air, the dragon’s wings creating a downdraught that
sent riders tumbling, toppling horses to their flanks. Kheranion could
feel his mount’s heart thundering, hammer-like vibrations pounding
through the seat of the prince’s saddle-throne and along his spine.
Bloodfang’s breaths came in stentorian blasts, clouds of oily vapour
forming a fog around rider and beast as the dragon strove to gain more
height.

The foremost dragon rolled right and then turned sharply left, the
prince atop its back angling his long lance over the monster’s neck.
Bloodfang twisted away and the lance bit through the membrane of his
right wing, ripping a large and ragged hole in the scaled skin. In a
flash the dragon flew behind them, crashing its tail against Bloodfang’s
flanks as it passed.

The other Caledorian steered his mount higher and the great creature
folded its wings into a stoop, coming at Bloodfang from above. Kheranion
twisted in his saddle and set the butt of his magical lance against
Bloodfang’s flesh to absorb the impact, angling the point towards the
approaching dragon prince. Bloodfang’s wounded wing spasmed and faltered
in its beat, sending the dragon lurching to the right, taking
Kheranion’s lance tip away from his foe.

Kheranion stared at his rival. The Caledorian’s snarling face was framed
with a shock of platinum blond hair that streamed back in the wind of
the dragon’s descent. There was nothing but anger in the prince’s deep
blue eyes as they met the druchii’s gaze. Kheranion met that gaze with a
curse upon his lips, a moment before the Caledorian’s lance hit home.

Its tip sheared through Kheranion’s breastplate in an explosion of
­magical fire, piercing a lung and shattering his spine. The prince was
already dead as the impact lifted him from his throne, breaking his legs
as he was torn free from the lacquered straps that had secured him
there. His grip broke and the chains fell from his dead grasp. The
Caledorian twisted his lance with a flick of his wrist, sending
Kheranion’s body spiralling to the ground far below.

The first dragon circled around and raked its claws across Bloodfang’s
snout, shredding skin in a spray of thick scales. Bloodfang gave a roar
and spewed forth an immense cloud of poisonous gas. Pumping his wings,
blood streaming from the injury, the black dragon turned and raced away,
heading for the Inner Sea.

Rising into the clouds, freed of Kheranion’s mastery, Bloodfang fled.
