
SEVENTEEN 

More Blood on the Plains

It was too much to believe that the ambition of Morathi and the druchii
had been finally thwarted, though there were some amongst the princes
that believed the abandonment of Cothique signalled as much. Carvalon
and Tithrain were the chief proponents of this view, arguing that the
druchii army had surely been withdrawn to shore up the defence of their
home kingdom. They went as far as to suggest that embassies be sent to
Nagarythe to initiate discussions for an accord.

Caledor was far from convinced by this argument and warned that not
until Morathi had been slain and the druchii brought to their knees
would they ever consider any kind of peace. It was a difficult debate,
made all the harder for the Phoenix King by his own desire to end the
war.

‘It would be the easy answer to believe we are on the brink of victory,’
he confided in Thyriol one evening.

The two of them shared a jug of wine on a balcony of the mage’s floating
palace, looking down across the moonlit Inner Sea. So tranquil was the
scene, it was almost possible to forget the woes of the past thirteen
years. Almost, but not quite. Caledor could not rid himself of the
things he had seen, especially the carnage he had witnessed in Cothique.

Thyriol seemed much changed by his personal battles too. His daughter
and grandson had turned against him, and he had slain the latter.
Several mages Thyriol had once counted close allies, friends even, had
been corrupted by the lure of dark magic, and sorrow lay heavily on the
Sapherian ruler as he stood beside Caledor at the rail, his shoulders
sagging, back bent as if weary with burden.

‘I must concur with your assessment,’ said Thyriol. He let out a drawn
sigh and swirled the wine in his goblet, eyes gazing into the distance.
‘We face a foe every bit as irrational and determined as the daemons.
They will not capitulate and they will not accept an easy peace. Part of
me thinks you should allow an embassy, if only so that its failure will
curb these false hopes that erode the resolve of our allies.’

‘That would be unwise,’ said Caledor. ‘Any hint of weakness will be
seized upon by the druchii. And such entreaty will simply offer them an
opportunity for manipulation. I would rather some of the princes harbour
doubts than give our enemies a means to divide us even more.’

‘You are right, I am thinking poorly,’ said Thyriol.

The ancient mage fell silent and for a change it was Caledor that felt
the need to speak, to fill the quiet to avoid the company of his own
bleak thoughts.

‘We have achieved nothing,’ said the Phoenix King. ‘So many deaths, so
much devastation, and for no gain by either side. Again I must wait,
fearful of what the druchii will attempt next. How is it that a single
kingdom can be a match for the rest of Ulthuan?’

‘Greed and dread,’ replied Thyriol. ‘The druchii fall into two groups.
There are those who serve their personal greed, their desire for power
and dominion. There is another part, who fear their rulers, Morathi most
of all, and know that to despoil and to fight is a better fate than the
one that awaits them if they disobey. Such are the benefits of tyranny.’

Caledor gulped down his wine. He was a little drunk and in a more
melancholy mood than even was usual for him. He leaned over the rail and
looked down, past the edge of the hovering citadel, seeing the
moon-dappled waves lapping gently at the Sapherian coast.

‘I do not regret our decision,’ said Thyriol.

‘What decision?’ said Caledor, eyes fixed on the shore.

‘To make you Phoenix King,’ said the mage. ‘You are the best of us,
Caledor.’

‘I was the best choice,’ agreed the Phoenix King. ‘I wonder if this
could have been prevented if I had acted sooner.’

‘None of us could foresee Malekith’s madness,’ said Thyriol. ‘Of all the
princes, you were the most reluctant to let the Naggarothi scheme and
plot.’

‘But I did not act,’ said Caledor. ‘Had I agreed to be Bel Shanaar’s
general, perhaps this war might have been avoided.’

‘I do not disagree,’ said Thyriol. ‘It was a selfish act, but no more
selfish than many others that were undertaken at the time.’

The mage-prince took Caledor’s cup and moved to a low table, refilling
both goblets with the last of the wine. He turned and offered the drink
to the Phoenix King.

‘You are not prone to regrets,’ said Thyriol. ‘It does not suit you to
start wearing them now. When the future seems so dark, it is tempting to
regress to the past and relive our mistakes rather than face the
present. It is not in your nature to do that, I feel.’

‘No,’ said Caledor. ‘I have had little to regret in my life, and less
time for it than most. If there are lessons to be learned, I have
learned them.’

Taking a deep breath, Caledor raised his glass and directed a lopsided
smile towards his companion.

‘A toast,’ said the Phoenix King. ‘To deaf ears and unreasonable
stubbornness.’

The mage frowned, confused by the proposal.

‘Why would you laud such things?’ said Thyriol.

‘They might prove to be my best qualities,’ laughed Caledor.

The following season brought no fresh attack, adding fuel to the fires
of speculation amongst the princes loyal to Caledor. Those who sided
with the Phoenix King were divided on the question of where the next
assault would come: Chrace, Ellyrion or perhaps even Caledor. Those who
believed the Naggarothi had spent their strength argued harder than ever
for some form of engagement with the enemy. These calls were hard for
Caledor to deny without seeming a warmonger, but deny them he did.

The council was summoned to the Shrine of Asuryan as summer become
autumn. Tithrain was noticeable by his absence, though it was
understandable given the dire circumstances in his kingdom. The
rebuilding of Cothique was the first topic to be raised in the council.

‘Yvresse will provide such supplies as are needed,’ promised Carvalon.
‘A weak Cothique is a threat to my kingdom. We have been fortunate
enough to avoid the worst depredations of war.’

‘Such aid as we can spare we will send to Cothique,’ said Aerethenis of
Eataine. ‘I fear my kingdom has not fully recovered from the Naggarothi
invasion, but the fleet is at the disposal of this council as ever.’

‘Saphery can offer little help,’ admitted Thyriol. ‘Our fields have been
devastated by the sorceries of the druchii and what little we have must
go to our people first.’

Caledor allowed the princes to continue, content to allow them to
organise a relief fleet to be sent to Cothique. There was little he
could do as Phoenix King, and no spare food to offer as prince of
mountainous Caledor. When the arrangements had been agreed, the
conversation turned to the matter of the cults.

‘Barely a murder or sacrifice has been perpetrated in Saphery since the
routing of the sorcerers,’ said Thyriol.

‘Since the purge, there has been no trouble in Eataine,’ reported
Aerethenis.

‘The same is true of Yvresse,’ said Carvalon. ‘Not a cultist has been
uncovered this past year.’

‘That is not good,’ said Caledor.

‘How so?’ said Finudel. ‘Surely this is cause for celebration. Perhaps
we have not yet defeated the druchii, but their agents and sympathisers
have been expunged from our kingdoms.’

‘I fear otherwise,’ said the Phoenix King. ‘They have gone to ground,
but that does not mean they have disappeared entirely.’

‘They bide their time?’ said Thyriol.

‘Maybe not,’ said Carvalon. ‘I am inclined to agree with Finudel. Even
if we have not rooted out every last cultist, they see that the tide has
turned against them. Their Naggarothi masters have abandoned them.’

‘Let us not be complacent,’ said Aerethenis. ‘At the siege of Lothern,
the traitors were content to remain concealed as assault after assault
failed. These creatures are cunning, knowing the time to strike when it
will cause most strife and destruction.’

‘True,’ said Caledor. ‘They will not show themselves again until our
attention is drawn elsewhere. They wait for a new Naggarothi offensive
to move our gaze from them.’

‘There is little enough we can do to combat that,’ said Thyriol. ‘If
they choose to hide, it will be all but impossible to draw them out into
the open.’

‘There are more subtle weapons we have than dragons and spears,’ said
Mianderin, who had seemed to be sleeping in his chair, but evidently had
been listening carefully to the exchange. ‘Far be it for a priest of the
light of Asuryan to suggest falsehood, but it would seem to me a wise
move to give the cultists false hope. If we wish the cults to show
themselves, we should appear weaker than we are.’

‘A classic manoeuvre,’ said Finudel. ‘A feint, of sorts. Perhaps these
spies will even take word to Nagarythe and prompt an ill-considered
move.’

‘What shall be the lure?’ said Thyriol.

‘An attack into Tiranoc,’ said Caledor, an idea quickly forming. ‘We
will muster an army in Ellyrion, but in truth we will also strengthen
the garrisons keeping watch for the cultists.’

‘The army will need to be dispersed for the winter, regardless,’ said
Athielle. ‘There is not a single kingdom that can now keep so many
troops fed during the season of ice. Spread rumour that the army has
moved to Ellyrion, the fleet of Lothern can make it seem so by some
crossings of the Inner Sea, whilst we send the companies back to their
barracks.’

‘What if we succeed in the deception and the druchii decide to launch an
attack?’ said Koradrel. ‘Chrace cannot stand alone, nor can Ellyrion.’

‘There is too little time left for the enemy to take enough ground
before the snows come,’ said Caledor. ‘Nagarythe is a harsh land and the
enemy will have even harder supply problems than we. If they seek to act
in any way, it will be through the cults. If they are foolish enough to
venture forth they will find little to sustain them.’

‘And in the spring?’ said Thyriol. ‘Whether the cults are drawn out or
not, their destruction will not force the enemy’s surrender.’

‘A double bluff,’ Caledor said with a smile. ‘We let it be known that
the plan to attack is a ruse. In reality, we will bring the army to
Ellyrion as quickly as we can and strike at Tiranoc. I am sure there are
many still in the kingdom who would be happy to swell our ranks.’

‘Attack?’ said Carvalon. ‘Are we so sure of our strength that we would
risk it?’

‘I am sure that delay will make us no stronger,’ said Caledor.

The plan was set in motion. Messengers were despatched openly to the
garrisons, informing them of the proposed deception in the hope that the
orders would be intercepted and passed on to the druchii. Meanwhile the
princes returned to their kingdoms with the real plans, under strict
instruction not to entrust them to any other. In the spring, Caledor
would send word for the army to be gathered to Thyriol, who would in
turn inform the princes by means of his message crystals. By the time
the druchii heard of the army gathering in Ellyrion it would be too late
for them to react.

For the first time in many years, Caledor left the council with a little
confidence. Wary of the optimism that had been dashed by the retaking of
Cothique, the Phoenix King did not indulge too much hope, but was
nevertheless pleased to be taking positive action again. He spent the
winter in Tor Caled with his family, whose company he was better able to
tolerate than on his last visit.

The Caledorian winter was especially harsh. Strong winds and driving
rains lashed the mountains for the whole season, and no elf ventured out
except when no other option presented itself. The dragons sought refuge
in their caverns, and Caledor spent much time at the palace windows
gazing to the north, wondering if the fierce weather was some
conjuration of his enemies.

In the last days of winter a hailstorm engulfed Tor Caled, balls of ice
the size of fists hammering into the tiled roofs and crashing upon the
cobbled streets. Ice rimed the eaves of the houses and palaces, and the
sentries on the walls sought the shelter of their guard rooms, warming
themselves beside the fires of magical braziers.

Amongst the downpour appeared a lone figure, heavily swathed against the
onslaught from the skies. He rode up to the gates of the city and
demanded entry, revealing himself to be Carathril, the Phoenix King’s
chief herald. Knowing that nothing but the most urgent news would bring
the messenger forth in such horrific weather, the guards conveyed
Carathril to the palace as swiftly as they could while messages were
sent ahead to warn Caledor of his arrival.

The herald was a bedraggled sight as he came to Caledor in his throne
room. He had divested himself of his heaviest furs and cloak, but his
long hair hung lank across his soaked robes, a blanket thrown about his
shoulders by the Phoenix King’s servants. The king ordered hot wine to
be brought for his herald, waved him to one of the seats that circled
the throne, and sat down next to Carathril.

‘The druchii march,’ said the herald between chattering teeth. His face
was pale and drawn, exhaustion dimming his eyes, lips bloodless. ‘Word
came to the Isle of the Flame from Finudel. The fortresses of northern
Ellyrion have been emptied, their garrisons gone. An eagle came, warning
that a dark army marched south along the Annulii, heading for Eagle
Pass. Finudel and Athielle will muster what army they can but request
that you summon your host to meet the attack.’

Attendants appeared with food and drink. Caledor commanded Carathril to
rest and restore himself while he considered the news he had brought.
The Phoenix King met Dorien in his chambers and told his brother of what
was happening.

‘I will ride to the dragon caves,’ said Dorien. ‘While I rouse the
drakes from their hibernation, you must take what troops you can to the
aid of the Ellyrians.’

‘Send your swiftest riders to Lothern and have the Sea Guard make haste
for the coast of Ellyrion,’ said Caledor. ‘I will send Carathril back to
the Isle of the Flame to take the news that we march. Bring the dragons
to Tor Elyr, and the princes shall ride with me.’

‘The druchii are mad to march in winter,’ said Dorien. ‘In Nagarythe the
snows must have taken their toll.’

‘Something has driven them to it,’ said Caledor. ‘Unless they control
the elements. Perhaps our ploy to lure them out has succeeded better
than I had hoped.’

‘It will have succeeded only if we can defeat this army,’ said Dorien.
‘This pre-emptive assault has caught us off-guard.’

‘It is troubling,’ agreed the Phoenix King. ‘I fear our secrets have not
been kept and the druchii know something of what I intended. What other
explanation is there for such a rash campaign?’

‘Do not ponder it too long, brother,’ said Dorien, opening a chest in
which his armour was stored. ‘The druchii do not think rationally, and
to attempt to understand them is to share their madness.’

Caledor bid his brother a safe journey and returned to the throne room.
Carathril looked a little restored from his wintry ordeal, and wore a
resigned expression as Caledor explained that he would have to leave the
next day to bear messages to the other kingdoms.

‘I wish you could enjoy the hospitality of my realm a while longer,’
said Caledor, laying a hand on the other elf’s shoulder. ‘None have
given more energy to our cause than you.’

‘It seems that Morai Heg has chosen a life in the saddle for me,’ said
the herald. ‘My ship awaits my immediate return. There is no point
delaying, I will ride again tonight.’

Caledor nodded his thanks and gripped Carathril’s shoulder even tighter.

‘Bel Shanaar made many mistakes, but his choice of herald was not one,’
said the Phoenix King.’

Carathril managed a smile, hands clasped to a steaming mug of mulled
wine. Caledor left the herald and went to his wife and son to explain
that he would be departing soon.

The march north was unpleasant, the winter storms not abating in their
violence as the army of Caledor pushed on through the wind and rain. The
mountain roads were more like shallow streams, and mudslides and
­tumbled boulders frequently blocked their path, making progress even
slower.

As they descended into the foothills between Caledor and Ellyrion, the
weather eased, though was by no means conducive to a speedy march. The
army travelled light of supplies and equipment, the baggage wagons left
at Tor Caled due to the harsh conditions. The Ellyrian army would be
similarly bereft of war machines – such engines did not suit their
fast-moving columns of reaver knights – and so Caledor devised a
strategy to suit the forces he would have at his disposal. To attempt to
contain the druchii in Eagle Pass would be reckless, and he would have
to persuade Finudel and Athielle to allow them onto the plains where the
Phoenix King’s dragons and cavalry would have their greatest effect.

The weather improved steadily as they crossed into Ellyrion. The storms
became showers and eventually abated when the spires of Tor Elyr
appeared on the horizon. Caledor was relieved to see a great many
pavilions and herds around the Ellyrian capital; the kingdom’s army had
not yet set out. His confidence improved further when he saw six dragons
in the skies above, keeping watch for any approach of the enemy.

His meeting with Finudel and Athielle was brief. They agreed to his plan
and despatched squadrons of their lightly armoured cavalry to Eagle Pass
to watch for the arrival of the druchii, two dragons sent as escort to
ensure they would not be waylaid. The combined army was moved west for
two days, the better to keep Tor Elyr safe from attack.

It was a tense wait. None knew the full extent of the Naggarothi host
and it was always in Caledor’s mind that the attack was a diversion,
created to draw his attention from some other objective. He despatched
one of his dragon princes to the north, to warn Koradrel in Chrace that
the druchii might attempt a fresh attack on his kingdom, assuring his
cousin that he would march to his aid as soon as possible if this proved
to be true.

The reavers sent to watch for the enemy returned three days later,
confirming that a large body of druchii had moved out of Eagle Pass and
was heading for Tor Elyr. A black dragon came with the army, along with
several riders on griffons and manticores. These did not overly concern
the Phoenix King; his dragons would be the match of the druchii beasts.

With the agreement of Finudel and Athielle, Caledor ordered the army to
march. The sooner the druchii were confronted and destroyed, the happier
the Phoenix King would be. With this latest assault driven back, he
would be free to respond to another offensive or, as he hoped, be able
to muster his army for an attack into Tiranoc in the early spring.

The sky was overcast as the armies of Caledor and Ellyrion headed
towards Eagle Pass. Winter had not relinquished its grip entirely and
flurries of cold rain swept the plains, brought down from the mountains.

The scouts reported that the enemy had made camp in the foothills of the
Annulii. It appeared their intent was to guard the entrance to Eagle
Pass, confirming Caledor’s suspicion that they had been despatched to
head off any attempt he might make to breach Tiranoc. In light of this,
the druchii’s hasty march south made more sense, and hinted at a change
of strategy from earlier years.

‘Perhaps Carvalon and Tithrain were right,’ suggested Finudel as he
played host to Caledor in the pavilion he shared with his sister. The
army was two days from the druchii encampment, and Caledor had called
the princes and captains together for a final council before the battle.
‘The druchii have spent their energy and can no longer spare the troops
for their assaults on the other kingdoms.’

‘No,’ said Caledor. ‘Why not defend the western end of the pass? The
only reason to come east is Tor Elyr.’

‘What difference does it make?’ said Dorien. ‘The enemy have made a
mistake and we should capitalise.’

‘I agree,’ said the Phoenix King. ‘We attack as planned. The Ellyrian
cavalry will form the southern wing of the army and swing around the
enemy camp to the west, cutting off the route to Eagle Pass. The rest of
the army will press the attack.’

More detailed plans followed, using the enemy dispositions brought back
by the scouting squadrons. The druchii had occupied a line of hills that
ran south-east to north-west, protected to the east by a lake. The body
of water was no obstacle to dragons and Caledor would make use of the
oversight, leading the dragons across the lake to attack the exposed
flank of the enemy while the infantry assaulted from the south.

When the plan was settled, the princes and captains returned to their
companies. Caledor remained with Finudel and Athielle.

‘If I have erred in my plans, say so now,’ the Phoenix King told them,
detecting a hint of reluctance from the prince and princess.

‘The plan is good,’ said Finudel, but exchanged a glance with his
sister.

‘Yet if it fails, the route to Tor Elyr will be wide open,’ said
Athielle. ‘If we are not victorious, we will be pushed south and west,
away from the city.’

‘Better that we do not fail,’ said Caledor. ‘No battle is certain, but
we cannot allow the druchii to establish themselves in strength east of
the mountains. To abandon northern Ellyrion to move to the south
suggests that the druchii might intend to use your kingdom as a step
towards an invasion of Caledor.’

‘Not to be harsh, but would that be so bad?’ said Finudel. ‘Caledor has
suffered little and its defences are strong.’

‘They would have to destroy Tor Elyr,’ said Athielle. ‘It cannot be left
to threaten their staging camp.’

Finudel was dismayed by the thought.

‘So we return to our earlier concern,’ said the prince. ‘Perhaps the
druchii have another army in the pass, waiting for us to expose our
flank with an attack on the encampment.’

‘If you see some other way to proceed, tell me now,’ said Caledor. ‘If
not, we attack in two days.’

No better plan was forthcoming from the rulers of Ellyrion and so
Caledor returned to his tent. He dismissed his servants and sat deep in
thought, trying to discern the purpose of the druchii encroachment.
Whichever way he looked at the situation, either a diversion or a first
probe towards Caledor seemed the most likely reason.

Whatever the ploy of the druchii, Caledor was resolved to destroy their
army and deal with any consequences. To lose himself in second-guessing
the intent of the fanatical Naggarothi was a pointless exercise, as
Dorien had warned.

The freshening wind brought a chill from the mountains, and the low
clouds were a uniform grey sheet across the sky. The vanguard of
Finudel’s reavers fought a brief skirmish with druchii outriders in the
mid-morning, driving the pickets back to their camp. Caledor’s army
arranged itself in the line of battle as warning horns sounded in the
enemy encampment and rows of spearmen and crossbowmen formed up
alongside the tents.

A barricade of sharpened stakes defended the approach from the south. A
brief foray by a squadron of knights revealed ditches had been dug too,
making a cavalry charge impossible. This was not a revelation for
Caledor, who had not planned to commit his knights in a frontal attack.
As several thousand druchii assembled for the battle, he was convinced
his plan would work. The enemy gave little thought to an aerial attack
across the lake.

Amongst the black and purple of the Naggarothi were several red banners
decorated with Khainite symbols. The sight of these caused a ripple of
anger through Caledor’s army as the atrocities of Cothique were
remembered. The Phoenix King sent stern words to his captains that they
not allow thoughts of revenge to affect their judgement. They would
follow the plan as it had been outlined and not seek to enact
retribution against the Khainites if it meant any deviation.

Receiving assurances that all would proceed as the Phoenix King
demanded, Caledor took to the skies atop Maedrethnir. The dragon was in
a surly mood.

‘A wet day for a battle,’ rumbled the beast. ‘You bring me from the
comfort of my lair for this rabble?’

‘Look there, to the west of the camp,’ replied Caledor.

Atop a rocky outcrop, a black dragon flexed its wings. From this
distance Caledor could make out no detail of the rider, who seemed oddly
positioned to support his troops. Two manticore riders and a pair of
griffons flapped into the air above the camp, but the dragon rider did
not move. The creature he rode was immense, towering over the pavilions
of the druchii. There was no doubt in his mind that such a mount would
belong to a high-ranking druchii prince.

There were other creatures in the army, goaded into position by the
druchii beastmasters. Clouds of steam and smoke wreathed the monsters as
they lumbered through gaps left by the infantry.

Flying low, Caledor signalled to his captains to sound the advance.
Trumpets blared along the line of silver and white and as one the
Phoenix King’s army moved forwards. Finudel and his reaver knights broke
to the left, heading westwards, while Athielle and her cavalry cut a
more northerly route, putting herself between her brother and the enemy
to ward away any counter-attack.

Not wishing to reveal his intent too soon, Caledor circled over his
troops with the other dragons. When the enemy were within bow range,
they would head east and come at the enemy from across the lake.

From his vantage point, he examined the layout of the druchii camp. It
was like several he had seen before, arranged in orderly lines, although
he noticed several clusters of tents dotted along the periphery to the
south and east. It seemed quite large in comparison to the number of
troops that had formed up, giving the Phoenix King a momentary pause for
thought. He reasoned that this confirmed his suspicion that the
encampment was intended as a staging ground, and had been prepared to
receive more troops in the future as fortifications were built.

Some of the cultists could not hold their positions and sallied from the
druchii line. Their wails and screams could be heard as Maedrethnir
swept along the line of Caledor’s army. The spear companies did not
pause in their advance, leaving the Khainites to be dealt with by the
archers, who stopped in long lines, bows at the ready.

As the first arrows were loosed, the Khainites broke into a charge,
heading for the centre of Caledor’s army. They were engulfed by a cloud
of arrows, cut down in their dozens by the disciplined volleys, leaving
a trail of semi-naked bodies in their wake. Heedless of their
casualties, the cultists pressed on, heading for the archers.

Not a single cultist reached the line, but their suicidal assault had
broken the coherency of Caledor’s army. The spear companies were coming
into range of the enemy repeater crossbows, unsupported by their
archers. If they waited for the bowmen to rejoin them, they would suffer
from the enemy missile fire; if they pressed on, they risked being
outflanked by a counter-attack.

‘Go with the spears!’ Caledor called out to Dorien, waving his lance
towards the enemy. ‘Take Anatherion with you!’

His brother signalled his understanding and the two dragons dived down,
swiftly catching up with the spear companies. The enemy had concentrated
their line to meet this attack, further weakening their flank, still
trusting to the protection offered by the lake. Caledor signalled to the
remaining dragon princes to follow him as he headed east towards the
water.

Dorien and Anatherion swept along the druchii line, their dragons
breathing fire into the repeater crossbowmen as Caledor’s spearmen
struggled across the defensive ditches. The manticores and griffons
dashed across the camp, and soon an elaborate aerial melee was rising
and falling above the two lines of infantry, the smaller beasts
attempting to separate the two dragons and concentrate their numbers on
one of them. Dorien and his companion were aware of the risk and climbed
higher, almost wingtip to wingtip, leaving the manticores and griffons
behind. After a brief discussion, they descended again, both dragons
spearing towards the manticores with flame and claws.

Caledor kept an eye on the main battle as Maedrethnir arced across the
lake, his wing beats sending ripples across the placid waters. The
spearmen had almost reached the druchii and the archers were moving up
swiftly in support; Athielle’s cavalry had reached the hills to the west
of the camp and were turning north to come at the enemy from behind; in
a few moments Caledor and his dragons would reach the eastern end of the
camp and the druchii would be surrounded.

A flurry of movement in the encampment caught the Phoenix King’s eye.
Dozens of tents were quickly cast down, revealing massed batteries of
repeater bolt throwers. As soon as they were revealed, the war machines
began launching their deadly shots. Spearmen were scythed down by the
score by the first devastating volley as they navigated their way
through the walls of stakes.

Caledor found himself flying into a cloud of iron-tipped spears, each
shaft glowing with a deadly rune. Maedrethnir did his best to avoid the
barrage, but bolts clattered and ripped along his flank as he turned
north. A shaft tore clean through his wing, leaving a burning hole, the
dragon letting lose a snarl of pain.

Behind Caledor, Imrithir and his mount were not so lucky. Caught full by
a flurry of bolts, the prince slumped in his saddle, a shaft piercing
his chest; his dragon flailed at two bolts transfixing its throat and
plummeted into the lake with a tremendous eruption of water.

Faced with such a weight of fire, the spear companies struggled to make
any headway. Those that successfully negotiated the stakes and bolts
were easy targets for the repeater crossbowmen and they died in their
hundreds. Caledor sped north, out of range of the bolt throwers, seeking
some other route into the encampment, but saw that a ring of engines
surrounded the entire hill.

The battle had turned in a moment. Athielle was forced to hold back her
charge, leaving the infantry to struggle on into the teeth of the enemy
without support. Hydras and chimeras charged into the fight, crushing
and biting, gouts of fire and petrifying gas taking a heavy toll.

Above the camp, Dorien and Anatherion did their best to menace the
druchii war engines, but were repeatedly driven back by the diving
attacks of the manticores and griffons. At risk of being shot down, the
two princes were driven further and further north, away from the
embattled infantry.

Now that the bolt throwers had been revealed, Caledor could see the
genius with which they had been placed. Any dragon landing to destroy a
battery would be an easy target for at least two others. He flew high
across the camp, looking for some chink in the defence to exploit, but
found nothing. Faced with the massed war engines, the infantry captains
had sounded the recall, retreating the line back to the ditches where at
least there was some cover from the incessant war machine volleys. It
was only a temporary respite though; at some point they would have to
advance or retreat from their position and would be cut down as they did
so.

Caledor needed to think quickly. The druchii infantry were reforming
after the melee, readying to press forward their advantage. The
situation was bad, but a decisive move now could swing the favour of
battle back towards the Phoenix King’s forces.

He noticed that the Naggarothi dragon rider had not moved. Perhaps the
prince was wary of committing himself to the fight, or was merely
leaving his options open. Either way, Caledor would not be confident of
victory unless he could draw out the black dragon, preferably luring it
away from the protection of the bolt throwers.

As Maedrethnir circled again, too high for the druchii bolts, Caledor
saw more movement in the enemy camp. From on high it was impossible to
see anything clearly, but it looked to the king as if patches of shadow
worked their way from tent to tent.

‘What do you see?’ he asked Maedrethnir, whose eyes were even keener
than the Phoenix King’s.

The dragon turned his gaze groundwards and stopped in the air, beating
his wings slowly to hold station. An odd reverberation sounded from
Maedrethnir’s chest, a draconian noise of surprise.

‘It looks like shadows that walk,’ said Maedrethnir. ‘I cannot see the
figures that cast them.’

As he watched, Caledor saw the puddles of darkness converging on one of
the bolt thrower batteries. There seemed to be a struggle of some kind,
the crew drawing their swords against some foe that Caledor could not
discern. Whatever attacked, it did not take long to overwhelm the crews
of the war engines. The battery fell silent and the darkness dispersed,
moving through the camp before coalescing next to another line of bolt
throwers.

‘Attack!’ cried Caledor, seizing the chance. ‘To the east!’

Maedrethnir did not hesitate. The dragon folded his wings and dived. He
felt a tremor run through the dragon’s body as they came within range of
the bolt throwers. No volley was launched and the pair plunged down
further. Closing fast, Caledor saw black-cloaked elves fighting with the
war engine crews. He did not know what was happening, but knew that
there was no time to waste.

A glance above showed that the other dragon riders had noticed their
king’s safe descent and with roars and bellows of flames, they plunged
down, eager to wreak revenge on the druchii that had tormented them.
Seeing the dragons attack, the infantry surged forth with trumpets
blaring the assault, while Athielle and Finudel were finally able to
signal the charge of the cavalry.

Caledor glanced at the black dragon and saw that its rider had made no
move in response to the turn in the tide of battle. There was a more
immediate threat as a manticore and its rider launched from the druchii
line, heading straight for the Phoenix King.

‘Beware of the sting,’ said Caledor.

‘This is not the first manticore I have slain,’ Maedrethnir replied with
a laugh. ‘Deal with the rider and I will show you how it is done.’

The druchii sat astride the roaring beast wielded a spear wreathed in
crackling energy. Caledor took the hit on his shield, the magic flaring
brightly from the protective enchantment bound within the ithilmar. The
Phoenix King’s lance found the manticore rider’s thigh, piercing armour
and bone to slide into the flank of the monster. It gave a pained howl
and lashed its sting at Maedrethnir’s underside. The dragon caught the
flailing appendage in one of his rear claws, and with the other seized
the manticore by the throat.

With powerful sweeps of his wings, Maedrethnir headed upwards, dragging
the manticore beneath him. The rider was not yet dead and swung his
spear at the dragon’s throat, but its point was knocked aside by
Caledor’s dipped lance. Turning, the dragon changed its grip slightly,
moving the manticore’s tail from back claw to front. With a single bite,
Maedrethnir severed the tail, the sting dropping away as the manticore
raged, twisting and snarling in the dragon’s immovable grasp.

‘And now the finish,’ declared Maedrethnir.

His jaw snapped again, clamping around the rider and shearing through
the manticore’s backbone. Vertebrae shattered as the dragon ground his
jaws, blood spilling in showers to the camp far below. With a last
effort, Maedrethnir flexed his body and legs, ripping the manticore in
half. He let the blood-spewing remnants fall from his grip, the rider’s
mangled corpse falling free as the manticore’s remains spun groundwards.

As soon as he looked back at the druchii infantry, Caledor knew the
battle was won. The enemy were streaming back through the camp in their
hundreds, abandoning their positions in a massed rout. There would be no
escape from Finudel and Athielle sweeping in from the other side of the
encampment. Many of the druchii threw down their weapons, begging for
mercy. Their pleas fell on deaf ears as knights and spearmen converged,
slaying every foe in their path.

Both griffons and their riders had been slain by the other dragon
princes, and the surviving manticore headed west, its rider deciding
that a timely withdrawal was in order. Caledor looked again to the black
dragon. There was something unsettling about the way its rider was
content to watch the massacre. He wondered if it was perhaps some
illusion conjured by the druchii and told Maedrethnir to head towards
it. As soon as the king and his dragon were heading in its direction the
drake took to the air, massive wings casting a huge shadow over the
camp.

Out of spite, the rider swept over a squadron of Athielle’s reaver
knights, shredding dozens of riders and horses, billowing clouds of
noxious vapour from his dragon poisoning even more. With a languid turn,
the black-scaled monster arced westwards. Caledor saw a brief glimmer of
shining blue, a flaming sword raised in mocking salute, and then the
dragon rose towards the clouds. It had too much of a head start to catch
and soon disappeared into the clouds over the mountains.

Unnerved by this display, unsure what it signified, Caledor directed
Maedrethnir to land. Most of the camp was already overrun. The only
resistance seemed to come from a group of black-swathed elves who had
taken refuge in a small copse of trees on the northern slope of the
hill.

‘I shall burn them out,’ said Dorien, sweeping past on his dragon.

He was out of earshot before Caledor could reply, rising higher and
higher in preparation for his swooping attack. Caledor followed his
brother with his eyes, raising his head as prince and dragon climbed
into the clouds.

A shout from the left attracted his attention.

‘Call off the attack!’ cried Finudel, galloping hard through the
trampled tents, his knights struggling to keep up.

‘They are allies!’ shouted Athielle, riding just as hard from the west.

Prince and princess reined in their steeds next to Caledor, horror
written in their expressions.

‘The Naggarothi in the woods are not the enemy,’ said Finudel. ‘I
recognise them.’

‘They are the Shadows of the Anars!’ gasped Athielle. ‘Do not harm
them.’

Cursing, Caledor barked at Maedrethnir to launch himself. They headed
for the stand of trees as Dorien began his steep descent, smoke and fire
trailing from his dragon’s maw. Caledor knew there was no point in
shouting; his brother would hear nothing over the roar of the wind.

‘Get in front of them,’ he told Maedrethnir. ‘Quickly!’

The dragon raced towards the trees, wing beats scattering the elves
below with huge draughts of wind. Caledor ducked low and raised his
shield to direct the rushing air over his head, to avoid being broken
upon his saddle by its force.

Dorien did not slow, probably thinking that Caledor joined the attack.
Against the buffeting wind, all the king could do was grip tight to
lance and shield, peering ahead through slitted eyes.

Maedrethnir roared, his whole body shaking with the effort. The
deafening bellow struck a chord in the mind of Caledor; for a moment he
was overwhelmed by a primal fear and almost let go of his lance. It was
a challenge, a hunting cry, a claim of territory that no other creature
could match.

Dorien’s dragon responded out of instinct, veering away from the woods
to charge headlong at Maedrethnir, roaring his response. Almost thrown
from his saddle-throne by the change of direction, Dorien lost his
shield, which tumbled into the trees as Maedrethnir and the other dragon
hurtled towards each other.

Caledor realised that in uttering the challenge, Maedrethnir had
reverted to his most feral state. He barked the incantations of the
Dragontamer, trying to break the dragon from his instinctual behaviour;
he guessed Dorien would be doing likewise.

Maedrethnir gave a strange yelp of pain, snapping from his fury. He
folded his wings, dropping like a huge stone so that the other dragon
passed overhead. He could only half open them again before he hit the
ground, legs splayed to lessen the impact. Trunks exploded into
splinters and branches scattered as the dragon ploughed into the woods.
In a deluge of green and brown, dragon and rider slid down a shallow
slope, Maedrethnir’s claws gouging deep furrows in the earth as he
slowed himself.

They came to a stop and the dragon sagged to his belly, panting hard.
Caledor’s neck flared with pain and he realised his teeth were gritted
together so hard the muscles in his jaw had locked. With an effort, he
opened his mouth, pain surging down the sides of his neck.

Maedrethnir shook his head, puffing smoke as he recovered his senses.

‘Are you all right?’ the dragon asked, arching back his head to look at
Caledor.

The Phoenix King grunted and nodded as best he could, unable to speak.
He dropped his shield and lance to the ground and wrenched off his
ornate helm and gauntlets. Rubbing his neck in his hands, he stretched
his back, fearful that his spine had been broken. There was no stab of
pain and he relaxed, slumping forwards to pat the dragon on his
shoulder.

‘We are not alone,’ said Maedrethnir.

Caledor looked around and found himself surrounded by several dozen
black-swathed elves, bows bent with arrows pointing directly at him. One
of them stepped closer, the bow in his hand a beautiful object of silver
and white, its string no thicker than an elf maiden’s hair. Dark eyes
regarded Caledor coolly from under the elf’s hood. He slowly lowered his
bow and the other shadowy elves did the same.

‘You must be the Phoenix King,’ said their leader, pulling back his hood
to reveal a slender silver crown. ‘The one who calls himself Caledor.’

‘You must be Alith Anar,’ Caledor replied. ‘The one who calls himself
the Shadow King.’

The Ellyrians were searching the woods for Caledor. The Phoenix King
heard Finudel calling his name. Another, lighter voice called for Alith:
Athielle. At the sound of the princess’s voice, a change came over
Alith’s demeanour. He beckoned for Caledor to dismount and dispersed his
warriors with a snapped command.

Maedrethnir settled, allowing Caledor to unbuckle his harness and drop
to the branch-strewn ground. Standing next to the Shadow King, Caledor
found Alith to be a lot shorter than he had imagined, and a lot younger
too. He was probably not even a century old, yet from his exploits
Caledor had thought him a veteran of war.

‘Malekith is alive,’ said Alith.

At first the Phoenix King thought he had misheard.

‘What did you say?’ said Caledor.

‘Malekith, prince of Nagarythe, still lives,’ said Alith.

‘You are wrong,’ said Caledor, shaking his head. ‘He was burned by the
flame of Asuryan. I have spoken to those that saw it.’

‘And I have spoken with him, not so long ago,’ replied Alith with a hint
of a smirk. ‘Which of us is wrong?’

‘How can that be?’ The idea was beyond Caledor’s comprehension. The
testimony of Thyrinor, of Carathril and Finudel, spoke of the ruin that
had been carried from the Shrine of Asuryan.

‘Sorcery,’ said Alith. ‘He wears an enchanted suit of armour, the colour
of midnight, though it burns still with the heat of its forging. He
asked me to join him.’

‘He did what?’ Each revelation was more unbelievable than the last.
Caledor looked at Alith carefully, trying to detect any hint of
subterfuge. He saw nothing and could think of no reason why the last of
the Anars would fabricate such a ridiculous tale.

‘Malekith lives on, sustained by his magic, and now calls himself the
Witch King,’ Alith explained. ‘You saw him today.’

‘The dragon rider?’ said Caledor.

‘Yes, that was the Witch King,’ said Alith. ‘When he came to me in the
ruins of Elanardris he offered me a place at his side. I said no.’

‘I have only your word that is true,’ said Caledor. ‘How is it that you
survived?’

‘By running,’ Alith replied with a lopsided smile. ‘Running very fast.
They pursued us into the mountains, but we know the peaks and passes
better than any other and escaped. I followed Malekith south, and
learned of his plans here.’

‘You have my thanks for your part, though it was not necessary,’ said
Caledor.

‘Not necessary?’ Alith’s laugh was edged with scorn. ‘Your army was
being destroyed.’

‘I was about to order my dragons to attack the bolt throwers at the same
time,’ said Caledor, crossing his arms. ‘We would have wiped out half
the war machines in a single moment. The battle was far from lost.’

‘I did not fight for your thanks,’ said Alith, taking a step back. ‘As I
told your brother and your cousin, I fight for Nagarythe and that is
all.’

‘Prove to me you do not owe loyalty to Malekith,’ said Caledor. ‘Swear
your allegiance to the Phoenix Throne.’

‘Never,’ spat Alith, his hand moving to the pommel of the sword at his
waist. ‘I will swear no oath to any king again. Nagarythe is not yours
to command, it is mine.’

‘My father was there when Malekith bent his knee to Bel Shanaar and
swore his loyalty,’ snarled Caledor. ‘Who are you to do any less for
me?’

‘I am the Shadow King,’ said Alith, touching a hand to the circlet on
his brow. ‘This is the crown of Nagarythe, worn by Aenarion himself. My
grandfather was the last of the great princes, equal to your ancestor.
Do not think that because I wear shadows for my cloak I have abandoned
my lineage.’

‘I will not offer my protection to any that will not swear their
obedience,’ said Caledor.

‘I do not need your protection, Nagarythe does not need your rule,’ said
Alith.

The scion of the Anars glanced over Caledor’s shoulder and again his
expression changed; his anger faded, to be replaced by a grim look. The
Shadow King spoke quickly.

‘Do not think you have seen the worst of this war, Caledor. Morathi has
known all along that Malekith lived and has been nurturing an army for
him. They are the deadliest of Naggarothi, the knights of Anlec at their
heart. They have been hidden away, even from me, upon the Blighted Isle,
studying the deadliest skills of Khaine at His bloody altar. Nothing you
have faced is like them. You have not seen yet half of Nagarythe’s
strength. Prepare yourselves for the onslaught.’

‘There cannot be such a force left in Nagarythe,’ said Caledor. ‘The
druchii have suffered many defeats these past years. What of the army
destroyed today?’

Alith laughed bitterly, a sinister sound that cut at Caledor’s spirit.

‘Today you slaughtered frightened Tiranocii,’ said the Shadow King.
‘They are terrified of the Witch King, and fight as conscripts in his
army. They would rather die on the swords of your warriors than face the
Khainites that Malekith has at his command. News of Cothique’s fate has
spread far indeed.’

The sounds of the search were approaching close; the devastation left by
Maedrethnir’s fall would not be hard to find. Alith’s discomfort
increased and he darted a look at Caledor. He suddenly again looked to
be the young prince Caledor had first seen close at hand, worried and
alone.

‘Many thought I was slain, and with good reason,’ said the Shadow King.
‘Tell Finudel that I am still alive; I leave it to his discretion
whether Athielle should know. I would rather she did not see me.’

‘You would rather not see her,’ said Caledor, reading Alith’s
expression.

‘I cannot, I forfeited that life when I became the Shadow King.’

‘You are a strange person, Alith Anar,’ said Caledor. ‘I do not like
that you call yourself king, but if you need my aid, send word.’

‘The elf who takes his grandfather’s name and has a dragon for his best
friend calls me strange?’ Alith said with a laugh. He grew serious. ‘I
am no hunting dog, to be called when you choose. I am the wolf, and I
hunt in my own way. I will fight the druchii, but not at your command. I
tell you again, Nagarythe is not yours, it is mine. Stay away.’

Alith turned and dashed into the darkness of the woods, swiftly
vanishing into the shadows. A moment later, Finudel called out from
behind Caledor and the Phoenix King turned.

‘Who was that?’ asked the Ellyrian prince.

‘We will discuss it later,’ said Caledor, his thoughts full of Alith’s
dire warnings.
