
TWENTY-THREE


A Council Convened

Carathril stayed in Tor Anroc for several more days after Bel Shanaar’s
proclamation, while heralds were despatched to the princes of Ulthuan.
In that time he spoke to Palthrain the chamberlain and others, gauging
the mood of the folk of Tiranoc. They were resolute but afraid, was his
conclusion. Beyond the Naganath now stood a terrible foe, who could
sweep down over Tiranoc at any time. Acting on Malekith’s advice, Bel
Shanaar despatched an army of twenty thousand elves to the north, to
patrol the border and guard the bridges across the Naganath. If the
prince of Nagarythe was correct, the cults would not make their next
move until spring, for only the desperate or the foolish started a
campaign in winter. This was the hope of Bel Shanaar and his council:
that the princes would agree to Malekith’s mobilisation and send their
forces to the west.

Just before Carathril was due to leave for Lothern to take word to
Prince Haradrin, he was called to the audience chamber by Bel Shanaar.
When he entered, he found himself alone with the Phoenix King, and the
doors were closed behind him.

‘Come here, Carathril,’ the Phoenix King said, waving the captain
forwards. ‘You ride today for Eataine, yes?’

‘This morning, your majesty,’ said Carathril, stopping just before Bel
Shanaar’s throne. ‘A ship awaits me at Atreal Anor once I have crossed
the mountains, and it is less than a day by sail from Lothern to the
Isle of Flame. I felt it better to ensure the other heralds were well
prepared before leaving.’

‘Yes, you have performed your duties with great dedication and
precision, Carathril,’ said Bel Shanaar. He opened his mouth to continue
but then stopped. With a finger, he beckoned for Carathril to come
closer, and when the Phoenix King spoke, his voice was but a whisper. ‘I
have one other duty for you to perform. We must gather our forces as
Prince Malekith has said, but I am not convinced that it is he that
should lead them. Though he seems determined enough to prosecute this
war, it is by no means certain that he is entirely free from the
influence of Morathi.’

‘He resisted well enough at Ealith, I saw it with my own eyes,’ said
Carathril. ‘Also, do we not cast away our greatest weapon if Malekith
does not lead the army? If not under the command of the rightful prince
of Nagarythe, do our forces not appear to be invaders rather than
liberators?’

‘I fear that is a poison already spread far by Morathi,’ replied Bel
Shanaar. ‘The Naggarothi have been set against the other realms long
before this day; ever have they been independent of thought and deed.
Many in Nagarythe, not least Morathi, believe Malekith to be the true
successor to Aenarion, and see me as usurper. By giving over command of
our armies to the prince, it may be taken as a sign of weakness on my
part. I will be seen as ineffective, unable to lead my own subjects.
Another must command the army of Ulthuan, in my name alone. I will force
Malekith to agree to this condition before I leave for the Isle of
Flame.’

‘I understand, your majesty,’ said Carathril. ‘Yet, I still do not know
what duty it is that you ask of me.’

The Phoenix King pulled forth a parchment scroll from the folds of his
robes and handed it to Carathril.

‘Keep this safe, on your person at all times,’ the Phoenix King said.

‘What is it?’ asked Carathril.

‘It is better that you do not know,’ said Bel Shanaar. ‘You must pass it
to Prince Imrik at the council.’

‘That is all, your majesty?’ said Carathril, wondering what message
could deserve such secrecy.

‘Let no other see it!’ insisted Bel Shanaar, leaning forwards and
grasping Carathril by the wrist. ‘Let no other know that you bear it!’

Bel Shanaar sat back with a sigh, and then smiled.

‘I trust you, Carathril,’ he said.

Before noon, Carathril had set out, the missive of the Phoenix King
hidden in a leather canister under his robes, next to his heart. With
him rode Prince Elodhir and a contingent of Tiranoc knights, to ensure
the council was ready for the arrival of the Phoenix King. For
Carathril, the journey was unremarkable; he had ridden back and forth
across Eagle Pass dozens of times since becoming herald for Bel Shanaar.
For six days they rode eastwards, crossing the mountains without
incident, and met with Prince Finudel on the eastward side of the pass,
just south of his capital at Tor Elyr. The two companies joined for the
two days of journeying to Atreal Anor, where they took separate ships.
Carathril was bound for Lothern to meet with Prince Haradrin, while
Finudel and Elodhir were to set course straight for the Isle of Flame,
to prepare the Shrine of Asuryan for the council.

Both ships travelled south and east across the Sea of Dusk, westernmost
of the two bodies of water that made up the Inner Sea, skirting the
coast of Caledor. Their southerly route took them away from the Isle of
the Dead at the centre of the Inner Sea, where the mage Caledor
Dragontamer and his followers still stood, locked in eternal stasis
within the centre of Ulthuan’s magical vortex. Rather than pass by the
ill-fated isle, the ships navigated the Strait of Cal Edras, between
Anel Edras and Anel Khabyr, which formed the outermost pair of islands
of a long archipelago that curved out from Caledor towards the Isle of
the Dead. Once through the Cal Edras, the ships parted company.

There were many ships in the Bay of Whispers, plying trade between the
coastal villages of Caledor and Saphery, passing in and out of the
Straits of Lothern. Carathril spoke to a few of the other crews, and
found them to be mostly unaware of the true extent of the tragedy that
had happened in the north.

Word had spread of Malekith’s expulsion and despite this setback many
seemed confident of the prince’s ability to reclaim Nagarythe. Carathril
chose not to disavow the sailors of their current optimism, knowing that
it would be upon ships that news of any disaster would spread fastest,
setting panic like a fire in the heart of Ulthuan.

As they sailed onwards towards Lothern, Carathril wondered if his view
of life had once been as blinkered as that of his fellow elves. They
seemed to be preoccupied with their own dreams and ambitions, and did
not give much thought to other forces outside of their immediate lives.
He concluded that he had been the same; believing that the cults had
been a problem but never once considering the extent to which they had
infected the society of Ulthuan, never seeing the threat they truly
posed.

The docks at Lothern were as busy as ever, packed with merchantmen
returning from the burgeoning colonies or readying to depart with
cargoes of goods from the realms of Ulthuan. In a way, it heartened
Carathril to see the life of his home city bustling and progressing as
if nothing had happened; yet deep inside he knew that this was all soon
to change and that his people were utterly unprepared.

For over a thousand years since Bel Shanaar’s election as Phoenix King,
relative peace had reigned over Ulthuan. War and bloodshed was something
brought back in stories from across the seas, and the elves had become
complacent, perhaps even indulgent. Now Carathril could see that it was
that very security and comfort, the social ennui of an entire people,
which had allowed the pleasure cults to flourish so well.

There was no guard to greet Carathril at the Prince’s Quay, for his
arrival was to be kept secret lest cultists in Lothern learned of what
Malekith and Bel Shanaar planned. He rode quickly through the city,
allowing the chatter and crowds to flow around him unnoticed. So
disturbed had Carathril become, so anxious of what the future held, that
there was no joy in his homecoming. His thoughts were dark as he rode up
the winding streets to the hilltops where the manses and palaces of the
nobility were built.

The palace of Prince Haradrin was not a fortress like Tor Anroc or
Anlec, but rather a wide spread of houses and villas set out in ornate
gardens upon the mount of Annui Lotheil, which overlooked all of the
city and the straits.

Carathril made directly for the Winter Palace, where he knew Prince
Haradrin would be staying. The sentries at the gate recognised him as he
approached and stepped aside without word to let him pass.

Prince Haradrin granted him audience immediately, in a great domed hall,
its ceiling cunningly painted so that as light from the windows struck
it at different times of the day it pictured the movement of the sun in
a summer sky and then descended into a glowing twilight.

Before the assembled court Carathril relayed the recent news as
concisely as he could, and the princes listened intently and without
interruption.

‘Bel Shanaar calls upon the princes of Eataine to remember their oaths
to the Phoenix Throne,’ the herald concluded.

‘And what does Bel Shanaar expect from Eataine?’ asked Prince Haradrin.

‘The Sea Guard and Lothern Guard must stand ready to fight, highness,’
said Carathril. ‘He calls for Prince Haradrin to attend a council upon
the Isle of Flame.’

‘Who else shall be at this council?’ asked Haradrin.

‘All of the princes of Ulthuan are expected to attend, to pledge their
support to the Phoenix King’s cause,’ said Carathril with a small bow of
deference.

‘Though now herald to Bel Shanaar, you were born of Lothern, Carathril,’
Haradrin said, standing up from his throne and walking closer. ‘Tell me
truthfully, what is Bel Shanaar’s intent?’

Carathril felt the letter to Imrik against his skin but kept his gaze
steadily upon the prince.

‘He would rid our people of the curse of the cults,’ Carathril said
evenly. ‘War is coming, highness.’

Haradrin nodded without comment before turning to his courtiers gathered
about the throne.

‘Eataine will stand beside Tiranoc,’ he declared. ‘Send word to the Sea
Guard that they should return to Lothern. They shall patrol the Bay of
Whispers and bring word to me of all that passes on the ships of the
Inner Sea. We shall not yet raise the call to arms, but upon my return
be ready to do so. If war is to be our fate, Eataine shall not flinch
from her duty.’

Carathril was content to spend the following days wandering the city,
safe in the knowledge that his part in these matters had been played. He
would accompany Haradrin to the Isle of Flame, deliver the Phoenix
King’s letter to Imrik and then await the arrival of Malekith and Bel
Shanaar. Carathril had resolved that he would ask the Phoenix King to
absolve him of his duty as herald so that he could return to his
rightful station as a captain of Lothern. While he had been content to
march alongside Malekith on his expedition, if full-scale war was to
come, Carathril wanted to fight with his own folk, in the army of
Eataine.

As he walked the city, Carathril inquired after Aerenis, but of his
friend he heard nothing. Wherever he asked, Carathril heard conflicting
tales of his lieutenant’s whereabouts. Shared acquaintances told
Carathril that his friend had been seen little since returning from Tor
Anroc those many years ago. Many thought he was on constant duty at the
palace, attending the prince, others thought he had been despatched to
one of the outlying towns to train young spearmen. Some claimed that he
had resigned his commission and sailed over the sea to a new life.

Though disturbed by the lack of information concerning his friend, there
was little Carathril could do further, for he was due to sail with
Prince Haradrin to the Isle of Flame. The time came when the royal
entourage was ready to depart, three days before the deadline set by Bel
Shanaar. Carathril was given a berth upon Haradrin’s elegant eagleship,
although by rights he was not yet part of Lothern’s guard again.

As the ship set sail and moved away from the wharf, Carathril looked
back at Lothern, seeing it as if for the first time. He looked at the
great statues of the gods surrounding the bay: Kurnous the Hunter, Isha
the Mother, Vaul the Smith and Asuryan the Allfather. He had barely
noticed them before, having grown up with them in sight. Now he looked
again at their stern faces and wondered what part they would play in
coming events. He also wondered if there were, out in the city
somewhere, hidden cellars with images of the darker gods: shrines to the
like of Nethu, Anath Raema, Khirkith, Elinill and the other cytharai.

The immense gold and ruby gate to the Inner Sea was open, and hawkships
darted ahead of the prince’s vessel to clear a path between the crowd of
fishing boats, pleasure barges and cargo ships. Once out of the Straits
of Lothern, the ship’s captain set full sail and the eagleship danced
across the waves, gliding across the water at full speed. The sun shone
overhead and the blue waters glittered, and for a while at least
Carathril was content to stand at the rail and marvel at the beauty of
Ulthuan; happy to forget his woes as he lost himself in the sparkle of
water and the blue sky.

They sailed overnight with reduced sail, and it was mid-morning when
they came into view of the Isle of Flame. Though Carathril had passed it
many times before on his way to Saphery, Cothique and Yvresse, the
Shrine of Asuryan still amazed him. The white pyramid rose up from a
marbled courtyard set within an open meadow. The walls of the shrine
blazed with reflected sunlight, bathing the grass and surrounding water
with its majesty. The isle itself was surrounded by gently shoaling
white beaches and long piers stretched out into the water. There were
four vessels already moored as they hove into the dock: the ships of
other princes already arrived on the isle.
