
TWENTY 

The Battle of Anlec


At Malekith’s signal, the army advanced in line, heading towards the
bridge across the river of fire. Arrows arced from the roofs of the
outlying towers, and the battle began.

With a wild screech, Redclaw beat his wings and bore Bathinair high into
the air. The Yvressian prince soared higher and higher, climbing far
above the range of the enemies’ bows. Likewise did the Sapherian mages
circle upwards into the cloudless sky. Behind their shields, the
spearmen marched forwards, not once breaking their stride even as more
and more arrows rained down upon them.

With a fearsome shriek, Redclaw dived down from the heavens towards the
closest of the towers. The archers atop its summit turned their bows
towards the descending beast, but their arrows caused no lasting wound
upon the griffon’s thick hide. Bathinair’s lance flashed with power as
its point drove through the chests of the defenders, even as Redclaw’s
talons and beak savaged others upon the tower, rending and tearing.

Another tower suffered at the wrath of Thyriol, who streaked down from
above, the tip of his staff blazing with green fire. As his pegasus
swooped low over the tower, the mage unleashed his spell, the flames
roaring from his staff in the shape of a hawk diving for the kill,
exploding amongst the archers and tossing their bodies over the parapet.

More elves rushed up to the tower roof from within, only in time to be
blasted by a bolt of red lightning from the staff of Merneir, which
shattered the granite bricks of the tower and sent burning bodies and
cracked stones tumbling to the charred earth. The army of Malekith
surged through the gap between the two towers, while Bathinair and the
mages wheeled above their heads, the cheers of the army ringing out to
greet them.

The fortified bridge seemed altogether a more daunting obstacle. It
consisted of four immense towers, with a drawbridge between each pair,
so that the fiery moat could only be crossed by the bridges on each side
both being lowered. Atop each tower was a powerful engine, which hurled
immense bolts far out across the barren plain. Before his army came
within range of these fearsome machines, Malekith signalled for his host
to halt.

He rode forwards alone a short way, as if daring the defenders of the
towers to direct their machines against him. It was a strange scene; the
solitary prince upon his steed staring at the grim castlebridge like a
golden lion standing its ground before a gigantic black bear.

Calmly, Malekith raised an open hand into the air. He felt the swirl of
magic coursing around him and fixed his eyes upon the moat of flames.
Upon his head throbbed the circlet, and the prince could sense the
bubbling mystical energies within the flame-filled ditch across his
path. He had been master of Anlec and knew the commanding words of the
flames, but he could feel other enchantments had been bound into the
moat; his mother had known he would try to use the spell words to break
this defence. She had not reckoned with the power of the circlet,
though, with which Malekith’s power was increased five-fold.

In him built energies that would have torn asunder a lesser mage, and as
the tide of magic grew, he began to quiver from the surging excitement
that filled him. Speaking the command spell, he opened the dam of his
mind and unleashed a tide of magic that flowed out of him and into the
fire moat. The flames turned black and rose higher as the Naggarothi
prince poured all of his will and determination into them, until they
climbed a hundred feet into the air.

Now sweating with the effort, Malekith raised up his other hand, his
limbs shaking with strain. The magic of the fires wriggled and writhed,
trying to escape the grasp of his spell. With gritted teeth, Malekith
began to bring his hands closer together and in response the flames of
the trench began to coil into tall waves, one on each side of the bridge
house.

Malekith brought his hands together with a thunderous clap and the two
tides of flame rushed towards each other, utterly engulfing the castle
across the entrenchment. Black fire scorched through arrow slits and
poured over the roofs of the towers. Ebon flames incinerated elf and
machine in an instant, reducing them to clouds of ash that billowed up
into the air above the bridge. Even as the ancient planks of the
drawbridge began to smoulder, Malekith pulled apart his hands and let
loose his grip on the enchantment, the fires washing away and returning
to their normal colour.

With a shout of relief and joy, Malekith turned to his army and waved
them forwards, his face split by a wide grin. As the spearmen of
Nagarythe reached him, he reined in his horse beside Yeasir. The captain
looked up at him with suspicious eyes.

‘Did you know that was going to work?’ Yeasir asked.

‘Well,’ said Malekith with a smile. ‘It’s a long walk back to Ellyrion.
I would not have wanted to have come all this way for nothing.’

Yeasir’s laughter rang in the prince’s ears as he wheeled his steed
away, riding south to consult with Charill and his Chracian hunters.
While Malekith outlined the next stage of his plan to his fellow prince,
the Sapherian wizards alighted upon the smoking towers of the bridge and
set free the bindings upon the huge drawbridges. They crashed down over
the moat of fire, and the path to Anlec was open. Malekith was the first
to ride across, his horse cantering forwards with jaunty high steps as
the prince made a confident show for his followers.

In truth, the next phase of the attack was the most worrisome for the
prince. It was five hundred paces to the closest outcrop of the walls
and a further hundred paces through a corridor of arrows and bolts to
reach the gate towers. Bathinair and the mages would do what they could
to occupy the defenders upon the ramparts, but Malekith knew that speed
was their greatest ally here, and even if they moved swiftly, casualties
would be high.

As Yeasir led the advance towards the eastern gate, spear-sized bolts
from engines upon the walls shrieked into his spearmen, slaying half a
dozen warriors with each shot, their fury so powerful that no shield or
armour was defence against them. Yeasir shouted himself hoarse urging on
his followers in the face of clouds of black arrows, knowing that
although there was no true weakness in Anlec’s defences, the war
machines could not target foes within a short distance of the walls. If
the army could reach the safety of the wall’s shadow the greatest danger
would be passed.

A thousand elves fell as they raced across the bloody field on foot, the
knights held in reserve to attack once the gate had been breached.
Yeasir was still unclear as to how this was to be accomplished, but
after the feat with the fire moat, Yeasir was willing to trust that his
lord had an equally accomplished ploy. In fact, Yeasir realised, he was
about to wager his life on it.

Some respite was earned for the spearmen by the warriors from the
colonies, who moved forwards behind thick wooden pavises. They were
armed with new weapons – repeating crossbows made by the dwarfs, which
could fire a hail of short bolts in a short space of time. From behind
their movable palisades, they unleashed volley after volley of darts at
the walls, pinning down the bolt thrower crews and forcing the defending
Naggarothi archers to seek cover. The shots did not go wholly unanswered
though, as heavy bolts split the timbers of their wheeled shields and
punched through to maim and slay those sheltering behind.

Those enemy warriors out of the crossbows’ range were beset by the
spells of Thyriol, Merneir and Eltreneth. Storms of purple and blue
lightning tore along the battlements, leaping from one warrior to the
next. Fire spells in the shape of hawks, dragons and phoenixes left a
charred ruin of the defenders in their wake. Bolt throwers shattered
into splinters under their enchantments and armour glowed with fiery
heat, scorching those within. Daggers of white magic sliced through
flesh while swords conjured from nothing hacked and slashed at the
cultists upon the wall.

Bathinair played his part too. He and Redclaw left a swathe of
dismembered and headless bodies along a stretch of the wall north of the
gate, until the weight of bow fire from the defenders against him grew
so much that he was forced to soar away, both he and his mount bleeding
from many wounds. Crimson dripped from the griffon’s beak and claws,
falling onto Yeasir and his spearmen as the winged beast glided
overhead.

The captain had no time to marvel at such spectacles. A third of his
warriors lay dead or wounded upon the killing ground, and they were only
halfway to their target. Close enough, it appeared, for the defenders to
worry that they might yet reach the wall, for the massive gate yawned
open in front of them.

From under its great arch there spilled a tide of wild depravity that
Yeasir recognised all too well. Nearly naked but for loincloths and
gauzy rags, their long hair spiked with gore, cultists of Khaine
screamed and shrieked as they charged forwards. A mix of male and female
worshippers, their skin daubed with blood, wearing grotesque jewellery
made from sinew and innards, the cultists wielded long, serrated daggers
and wicked-looking swords. They poured forth from the open gate in a
stream of flesh and blood, hundreds of fanatical blood-worshippers.

Yeasir remembered well the feral snarls and wide eyes of the Murder
God’s chosen disciples, and knew that they were oblivious to everything
but the spilling of blood, their battle-frenzy fuelled by the vapours
from narcotic incense and potions brewed by the priestesses who ruled
their cult.

The Commander of Nagarythe called for the spearmen to slow and rank up,
ready to receive the Khainites’ charge. In such formation they were more
vulnerable to the arrows stinging down from the walls above, and Yeasir
had no doubt that the defenders would not hesitate to fire into the
forthcoming melee, heedless of the risk to their own comrades; such was
the point of unleashing the cultists. With a crash, the gates closed
once more.

A thundering of hooves attracted Yeasir’s attention, and he turned to
see the reaver knights of Ellyrion galloping forwards. They swept around
the spearmen, ducking and swaying in their saddles to avoid the arrows
raining down from the ramparts. Expertly loosing their bows as they
dashed in, the reavers began to pour arrows into the cultists.
In-and-out, left-and-right they galloped, sometimes turning nearly all
the way around to fire backwards as they raced past their foes. Some
turned their weapons upon the walls, their aim impeccable even at speed,
their shots picking out any head or limb that could be seen.

The riders formed two circles running counter to each other around the
spearmen, and under the cover of their bows Yeasir ordered the advance
to begin again, the circles moving forwards to keep position with the
spearmen.

When only a few dozen Khainites remained, the Ellyrians broke off their
shooting and stored their bows, taking up their spears instead. With
Finudel and Athielle at their head, their famous weapons in hand, the
Ellyrians charged in. The Khainites would not break before their attack:
so intoxicated with blood-frenzy had they become that they fought until
the last of them lay dead upon a heap of bodies, his dying breath a
curse upon his enemies.

The path was open to the gates and the Ellyrians directed their steeds
away, leaving passage for Yeasir and his warriors to enter between the
high walls that led to the immense portal. Behind them came Charill and
his hunters of Chrace, and behind them the spearmen of Yvresse stood
ready to push forwards through any breach.

As the shadows of the walls loomed above them, the spearmen began to
glance upwards at their forbidding heights, expecting death to be
unleashed upon them at any moment. Yeasir risked a glance backwards,
seeking some sign of Malekith’s intent. The prince was sat upon his
horse a little way back, arms casually folded across his chest. Malekith
somehow felt the eyes of his lieutenant upon him and gave a playful
wave, before pointing towards the gatehouse.

Yeasir looked up at the menacing towers and saw black-hooded figures
appearing at the battlements. They carried bows in their hands and
looked down upon the spearmen with arrows nocked.

‘Stand ready!’ Yeasir shouted, hefting up his shield.

At that moment, the black banner that flew above the gatehouse fluttered
and then fell, as if its pole had been cut. In its place there was
raised a new standard: white threaded with silver, with a blazon of a
clawed griffon’s wing upon it. Yeasir stumbled, almost losing his
footing in disbelief, for he recognised it as the banner of House Anar.

The warriors of the Anars tossed bloodied corpses over the battlements,
and Yeasir saw it was the bodies of cultists and warriors loyal to
Morathi, their throats and bellies slit open. The gate ground open again
before Yeasir, and he let out a great roar of triumph.

Fearing that the way in might close any moment, he broke into a run, his
spearmen close behind. With the lion warriors of Chrace and the spearmen
of Yvresse close on his heels, Yeasir was the first to cross the
threshold into Anlec. He shouted again as he passed under the shadow of
the gate of his home city, exalted at his return.

Inside, the city was utterly unlike the home Yeasir had left behind many
centuries earlier. The great square beyond the gate had once been
dominated by a large statue of Aenarion seated upon a rearing
Indraugnir; now instead it was lined with statues of the cytharai.
Atharti cavorted naked atop a marble stone, snakes twining themselves
about her limbs. Anath Raema, the huntress, held her bow in one hand and
the severed head of an elf in the other, her waist girded by a belt of
severed hands and heads. The god Khirkith was depicted crouched upon a
pile of bones, a jewelled necklace in his hands as he admired his looted
treasure.

There were many others, of gods of destruction and death, and goddesses
of strife and pain. A brazier burned before each, sputtering with dire
contents, the bloodstains upon the statues’ plinths testament to the
foul practices of the cultists.

When Yeasir had left Anlec, the buildings around the square had been
busy trading forums, bustling with wares from all across the globe. Now
the open-fronted facades had been turned into animal pens, with bars
across their high arches, and all manner of unnatural beasts in the
darkness beyond.

Mutated bears growled and gnawed at their cages, while two-headed
orthruses howled and a stinking fume drifted into the square from the
pens of half-bull bonnakons. Gaseous clouds issued forth from the cages
of wild chimerae and hideously large serpents spat venom through the
bars. Other things wailed, cavorted and roared menacingly from the
shadowy confines of their prisons.

From one cage there billowed a great cloud of smoke, and licking tongues
of flame could be seen lighting the smog. A gate was thrown open and
there came a great screeching, as of many creatures shrieking in
concert. From out of the gloom there emerged a titanic beast, a
seven-headed hydra with flames flickering from its nostrils. Its scales
were of deep blue, and many welts and scars upon its flesh told of its
ill treatment by its keepers. Its heads were protected by plates of
golden armour, as was its spined back and muscled flanks.

Behind the hydra came a pair of handlers wielding vicious goads and
whips, with which they urged the monster forwards, shouting and hurling
abuse. Enraged, the hydra stalked forwards, its claws gouging rents in
the stone flags of the plaza, its heads swaying and writhing like a nest
of serpents. From the cage came another of the huge beasts, of red flesh
and silver armour, with blades and barbs hammered into its scales, and
spiked collars about its five necks. Its tail was likewise armoured and
beweaponed, and thrashed left and right as its handlers scourged its
sides with the tines of their long spears and the cruel thorns of their
lashes.

Not since the shaggoth had Yeasir known such dread as he looked at the
two behemoths crashing across the square towards his spearmen. Mastering
his fear, he called out for his warriors to form a shield wall, though
he doubted such a manoeuvre would be any defence against the monstrous
creatures bearing down upon the Naggarothi.

Growls and roars sounded to the right and the lion chariots of Charill
raced forwards, the prince at their front. The handlers of the foremost
hydra turned their beast towards the Chracians and with another lash
from their whips sent it charging forwards.

Seven blasts of yellow fire gouted from the creature’s throats, directed
towards Charill’s chariot. A shimmering blue aura leapt up around the
Chracian prince and his lions, a jewelled amulet hanging upon his bared
chest glowing bright with power, and the flames lapped around the
prince’s magical ward without harm.

The lions leapt to the attack, biting and clawing at the hydra’s scaled
flesh. The hydra’s heads snapped forwards, their dagger-like fangs
tearing chunks of bloody ruin out of the lions, whose yelps of pain
resounded around the square. The hydra reared up with two lions clamped
in its fearsome jaws, wrenching them into the air amidst the tangle of
their frayed traces, overturning the chariot. Charill and Lorichar leapt
free from the splintering wood and twisted metal, and regained their
feet as the other chariots attacked.

The Chracians raced past the monster, axes and lion’s fangs scoring
wounds upon the creature’s hide before they swerved away from its
whipping tail and snapping heads. In their wake came the hunters,
swinging their axes in wide arcs, lodging their blades deep into the
creature’s tough hide. Though blood streamed from dozens of wounds, the
hydra was relentless, powerful jaws and savage claws wreaking red
furrows through the Chracians.

Charill bellowed his war cry and joined the attack, Achillar burning
with white light in his hands. With the fabled axe he smote a great blow
upon one of the creature’s necks, severing it utterly, so that neck and
head fell to the floor and continued to writhe for a while like a snake.
Blood spumed briefly from the injury, but to the Chracian’s horror, the
great wound swiftly closed over. Flesh bubbled, veins and arteries,
muscle and sinew knitted and grew afresh, so that within moments a new
head had grown in the place of the old.

Several dozen hunters and the shattered remains of three chariots now
surrounded the beast as the Chracians were hurled back by its savagery.
With a wordless shout, Lorichar ran forwards, the speared tip of the
household banner aimed towards the monster’s chest. Lorichar drove the
point of the standard deep between the creature’s scales, all of his
weight behind the blow. His thick muscles straining, his face a mask of
effort, Lorichar drove the banner point deeper and deeper.

Yeasir had not the time to see what happened next, for the second hydra
was almost upon the Naggarothi.

‘Where’s Prince Malekith?’ Fenrein asked from beside the captain.

Yeasir did not answer, although the thought had also occurred to him. He
had not seen the prince since they had entered the city, and the
Naggarothi captain dearly wished his lord was beside him; sorcery and
Avanuir would make short work of the horrendous creature that now loomed
above the Naggarothi.

Unearthly chattering and screeches briefly distracted the lieutenant as
he saw more cultists unbarring the other cells. All manner of beasts and
monsters ran forth, howling and yammering. Scaled and feathered,
majestic and misshapen, the captured denizens of the Annulii poured
forth from their dens like a nightmare made real. The Yvressians moved
forwards, spears at the ready to meet the bizarre horde.

Yeasir could spare them no more thought as he turned his attention back
to the hydra now just two dozen paces away.

He saw it drawing its heads back, and yelled a warning to his warriors.
As one they dropped to a single knee and raised up their shields just as
the hydra’s fire roared out. Yeasir felt his shield heating in his
hands, burning at his fingers as the flames engulfed the spearmen. There
were cries of pain and the smell of charred flesh filled the captain’s
nostrils. Surrounded by a pall of smoke, the Naggaroth captain looked up
and saw that a great swathe of his company now lay burning upon the
ground; many thankfully dead, others screaming and sobbing as they
clutched scorched limbs or rolled about on the stone, their hair and
clothes alight.

Black-fletched arrows whickered overhead as the archers of House Anar
shot from the gatehouse. Their aim was not for the monstrous hydra, but
for the cultists cowering behind its bulk. Several arrows unerringly
found their marks and the two handlers dropped, bodies and necks pierced
and bloody.

Suddenly free of the goading whips and spears of its handlers, the hydra
slowed. Three of its heads bent back to examine their unmoving corpses,
the other four rose into the air, nostrils flaring as they caught the
scent of basilisks and khaltaurs. Fiery venom dripping from its maws,
the hydra heaved around its bulk and spied its enemies from the
mountains. With deafening hisses issuing from its many throats, the
hydra lumbered into a run, heading for the other monsters.

Its closest prey was a gigantic wolf with glowing eyes and iron fangs,
which turned at the hydra’s approach and leapt at one of its throats. No
longer under any control, the hydra tore apart the wolf-thing and
barrelled forwards, tail and claws smashing and crushing the lesser
creatures before it. All control disappeared as the beasts of the
mountains fell upon each other; blasts of fire and lightning danced
amongst the mutated creatures and blood of all colours stained the
square as the ferocity of the monsters was unleashed. The Yvressians
retreated with shrieks of alarm as the ragged corpse of a basilisk was
hurled into the ranks, its poisonous blood burning their skin.

Yeasir could not help but laugh, out of relief more than humour. A
glance told him that the Chracians had finished off their monstrous foe,
though they stood about its body chopping and hacking with their blades
to ensure that it regenerated no further.

Malekith’s whereabouts still a mystery, Yeasir turned and looked for the
prince. He spied him then upon the wall, talking with Eoloran, the
prince of House Anar. Telling his spearmen to stand guard for fresh
attack, Yeasir left the company and headed towards the steps.

Malekith saw Yeasir striding up the stairway to the gate wall, and waved
him forwards. With the prince stood Eoloran, his son Eothlir and his
grandson Alith. All were dressed in silver armour and black cloaks, and
carried bows etched with magical sigils. The three were grim-faced, but
Malekith was in good humour as he looked at the bloody savagery being
unleashed in the plaza below. He introduced Yeasir to his companions,
clapping a hand to his second-in-command’s shoulder in an encouraging
fashion.

‘Well done!’ the prince exclaimed. ‘I knew you would not let me down.’

‘Highness?’ said Yeasir.

‘The city, you fool,’ laughed Malekith. ‘Now that we are in, it is only
a matter of time. I have you to thank for that.’

‘Thank you, highness, but I think you deserve more credit than I,’ said
Yeasir. He looked at the Anars. ‘And without these noble warriors, I
would still be stood outside, or perhaps lying outside with an arrow in
my belly.’

‘Yes, well, I have thanked them enough already,’ said Malekith. ‘It
would be best not to give them too much credit, otherwise who knows what
ideas they might get.’

‘How did they come to be here?’ asked Yeasir.

‘Malekith sent word to us many days ago,’ said Eoloran. He was an ageing
elf, of hawkish features and a deep voice. ‘When he told us of his
intent to attack Anlec, at first we thought him mad. By secret means, he
outlined his plans for the attack, and it became clear that this was to
be no idle gesture. We were only too happy to play our part in ridding
Nagarythe of this wretched regime of darkness. Ten days ago we came into
the city, dressed in the manner of Salthites and Khainites, and all
manner of other vile worshippers of the cytharai. We met in secret and
gathered together to await Malekith’s attack. We could not open the
gates sooner for the square below was filled with Khainites… Well you
know that, since you faced them. Once the square was undefended, we
struck as swiftly as we could to take the gate.’

‘Well, you have my gratitude, prince,’ said Yeasir with a deep bow. He
turned to Malekith with a frown. ‘I must admit to being somewhat hurt
that you did not feel that you could trust me with this counsel,
highness.’

‘Would that I could have,’ said Malekith airily. ‘I trust you more than
I trust my own sword arm, Yeasir. I could not divulge my plan to you
lest it affect your actions in battle. I wanted the defenders to know
nothing was amiss until the gates were opened, and foreknowledge of the
Anars’ presence may well have meant that you held back until the gates
were already flung wide. We needed to keep the pressure on so that all
eyes were turned outwards rather than inwards.’

Malekith then turned to Eoloran.

‘If you would excuse me, I believe my mother is waiting for me,’ the
Naggarothi prince said, now empty of all humour.

There was still fierce fighting in the plaza, and the knights of Anlec
arrived to take their share of the glory, driving hard into cultists and
beasts with their lances. Designed as a fortress, Anlec was laid out in
a fashion so that there was no direct route to the central palace. Along
twisting streets, harassed by archers from roofs and windows, the army
of Malekith advanced cautiously, aware that by alley and underground
passage there were many ways by which a foe could come at them from
every direction and then melt away into the city.

Fortunately for Malekith, the defenders had committed a greater part of
their strength to the defence of the walls, confident that no enemy had
ever passed into the city by force of arms. This left the remaining
defenders scattered, and as most were simple cultists they attacked in
haphazard, uncoordinated fashion and were easily dealt with.

At one stage the advance was halted, as a fearsome figure atop a
manticore descended on the column from the skies. Malekith recognised
him as Prince Kheranion, and knew him of old.

He wore armour of ithilmar inscribed with protective runes and bound
with enchantments of warding, forged in the Shrine of Vaul, against
which it was said no mortal weapon would draw blood. The beast upon
which the prince rode had the body of a gigantic lion, with bat-like
wings that swathed the street in shadow as the traitor plunged down from
the air, his mount roaring ferociously.

The knights at the head of the advance were taken by surprise as the
prince dropped from above, their armour gouged by his monster’s teeth,
their horses cast down upon the cobbles.

In his hand the prince wielded the fell lance Arhaluin, the shadowdeath
that Caledor had forged for Aenarion before he had wielded the Sword of
Khaine. Seeing the weapon in the hands of his foe sent Malekith into a
rage. He raced forwards, his steed’s hooves striking sparks from the
pavement as the prince gathered magical power for a sorcerous blast.

Before Malekith could confront Kheranion, Morathi’s captain steered his
mount into the air once more and swooped over the rooftops. Moments
later he dived into the attack once more, crashing into the Yvressian
spearmen further down the road.

For several minutes the prince hit-and-ran in this fashion, halting the
advance and allowing other defenders to gather in numbers around the
column. Doorways and windows spat arrows into the attackers. Red-robed
cultists leapt from hidden trapdoors to snatch warriors and drag them
from sight before their comrades could react. Chilling screams began to
echo through the streets, unnerving the attackers further.

Beset from above and below, Malekith shouted in frustration and urged
the army to move onwards.

The Naggarothi prince knew that ahead lay a wide killing ground, where
his army would be vulnerable to attack, but there was no option but to
press on towards the palace. Soon the winding streets led them to a
rectangular space lined on all sides by high walls punctured with murder
holes. As arrows rained down from these narrow slits, Malekith summoned
the energy for a spell.

Here, in the heart of Anlec, there was much dark magic, drawn here by
the murder and suffering of the cultists’ victims. Aided by the circlet,
Malekith was able to tap into this flowing energy and harness it. He
tried to form a magical shield around his troops, but the dark magic
contorted and thrashed in his mental grasp, refusing his will.

With a snarl, Malekith allowed his frustration full vent and let loose a
stream of magic as a cloud of black darts that exploded outwards, each
small missile twisting and turning to seek out an embrasure or opening.
Screams and shouts resounded from the corridors within the walls around
the cloister as the darts found their targets, and blood from the slain
­dribbled from windows and under door.

Kheranion attacked again, plunging downwards with lance ready. Malekith
hurled a bolt of lightning at the stooping monster, but Kheranion raised
his silvered shield and the spell earthed itself harmlessly within the
enchanted guard.

Kheranion was not without some sorcery himself and a dark nimbus
surrounded him before erupting into a flock of evil crows that descended
upon Malekith’s army, pecking at eyes and exposed skin, causing disarray
and panic. With a contemptuous sweep of his arm, Malekith dispelled the
curse and the crows evaporated into burning feathers.

So intent was Kheranion on his magical duel with Malekith that he did
not spy a shape coming upon him from the clouds. It appeared first as a
speck, but rapidly grew larger until the shape of Bathinair’s griffon
could be seen. Hearing its screech, Kheranion turned, but too late. In
Bathinair’s hand, Nagrain trailed icy shards and its crystalline point
bit deep into the muscle and bone where the manticore’s right wing met
its body. With a strange yelp, the manticore twisted and raked its claws
across the chest of Redclaw, and the two snarled and snapped at each
other as they dug in their long claws.

Bathinair avoided a thrust from Kheranion as the two monsters locked
together and spiralled towards the ground. Nagrain leapt again but
Kheranion deflected the attack with his shield, his own magical lance
piercing the throat of Redclaw. In its death throes, the griffon clamped
its beak about the left foreleg of the manticore and both beasts and
riders crashed into a tiled roof before spinning onto the cobbles of the
open ground.

The manticore lashed its tail sting forwards, catching Bathinair a
raking blow across the chest and sending him flying from the throne upon
which he had been seated. Discarding Arhaluin, Kheranion drew a sword
whose blade was made wholly of flame. The prince advanced purposefully
towards the stricken Bathinair. The manticore righted itself and lunged
forwards lopsidedly, its wounded wing trailing uselessly behind it.

Malekith drew Avanuir and urged his horse forwards, eyes intent on
Kheranion.

Another shadow eclipsed Malekith for a moment as Merneir swept across
the square atop his pegasus, his staff blazing with golden light. With a
shout, the mage unleashed a ball of blue fire that hurtled across the
open space and detonated with a flash beside Kheranion. The prince was
hurled into the air and the manticore flung sideways by the blast. The
gold-shod hooves of his steed flailing, the mage descended upon the
manticore with his sword, hacking away at its venom-tipped tail while
Kheranion shook his head and groggily stood.

Behind the renegade prince, Bathinair rose to his feet also, Nagrain
grasped in both hands. His face was a mask of anger as blood trickled
across the left side of his face from a cut on his forehead. He swept
the point of the spear towards Kheranion and a hail of icy shards
erupted from the weapon’s tip, slamming into the prince’s armour and
smashing him from his feet once more. The firesword spun from his grip.

Out of desperation, Kheranion flung forwards an outstretched hand and a
blast of power caught Bathinair full in the chest, sending him crashing
into the wall a dozen paces distant. The prince collapsed to one knee,
panting hard, while Kheranion scrabbled on all fours to reclaim his
blade.

Just as Kheranion’s fingers curled around the hilt of the accursed
sword, Malekith arrived. He leaned low in the saddle and Avanuir carved
a furrow into the renegade’s armour and bit into his spine. Malekith
leapt from the back of his horse as it galloped on and landed cat-like
next to the stricken prince. Kheranion stared into Malekith’s eyes and
saw the prince of Nagarythe’s murderous gaze.

‘Spare me!’ begged Kheranion, falling to his back and tossing away his
magical sword. ‘I am crippled and no more a threat!’

Malekith saw that this was true, for the prince’s legs hung limply from
his body as he dragged himself away across the cobbles.

‘Perhaps you would have me end your suffering?’ said Malekith, taking a
step forwards, the point of Avanuir aimed towards his foe’s throat.

‘No!’ cried Kheranion. ‘Though I am undone, perhaps my wound is not
beyond that of the finest healers.’

‘Why would I allow you to live, so that like a pet serpent you could
rise up and bite me again?’

Kheranion sobbed with pain and fear, and held up an arm as if to ward
away the killing blow.

‘I denounce Morathi!’ Kheranion shouted, his voice reverberating around
the courtyard. ‘I will swear anew my oaths to Malekith!’

‘You are a traitor, and yet have not the conviction to stand by your
treacherous path,’ snarled Malekith. ‘Betrayal can be forgiven,
cowardice cannot.’

With that, Malekith drove the point of Avanuir downwards and Kheranion
shrieked, but the tip of the sword stopped a fraction from the fallen
prince’s throat.

‘Yet I also swore to be merciful,’ said Malekith, lifting away his
blade. ‘Though you have done many wrongs against me, I must stand by
that oath and offer clemency to those who repent of their misdeeds.
Perhaps I will find a way even for a creature as craven as you to make
amends.’

With an agonised grunt, Kheranion threw himself forwards and grasped
Malekith around the leg and whimpered meaningless gratitudes. Malekith
kicked him away with a sneer.

‘Pathetic,’ the prince rasped, turning away.
