
FIFTEEN 

The Hammer of Vaul

From outside the tent came the muted sound of weeping; inside the
pavilion the grief and anger of those who had escaped Cothique was much
louder. A handful of princes and nobles had escaped the kingdom with
their households, before the routes out of the kingdom had been cut off
by the druchii. Tears streaked Tithrain’s face as he listened to the
impassioned pleas of the dispossessed, while Caledor looked on
impassively, keeping his own thoughts to himself. Tithrain had done the
right thing and obeyed the Phoenix King’s command, bringing three
thousand knights and infantry south into Yvresse to join Caledor’s army.
More troops came from further afield, swelling the camp that occupied a
stretch of land between the forested hills of the Annulii and the Great
Ocean.

‘We cannot return,’ Tithrain answered those who pleaded for the prince
to save those trapped in Cothique. ‘We should die also in the attempt,
and our cause would be no better for it.’

‘We sent warriors to the other kingdoms,’ argued one of the nobles, his
gaze on Tithrain but his words directed at Caledor. ‘Where now is the
pact we made to fight together?’

‘Cothique will be liberated,’ said Tithrain. He glanced at Caledor and
received a nod of agreement. ‘You have my oath on that. The Sea Guard of
Lothern will join us shortly, with a large part of the fleet of Eataine.
Another army gathers on the Ellyrian shore, ready for the march to
Lothern.’

‘That will take too long,’ said another elf, his fine robes tattered by
hasty retreat. ‘It has been almost half a year since the druchii
arrived. Why can these reinforcements not sail across the Inner Sea?’

‘Saphery is no longer safe,’ said Tithrain. ‘The druchii have spies
everywhere, and it would be best that they do not realise we weaken our
guard in the west.’

‘Our people bleed and die, while you do nothing!’ This shrill accusation
came from an aging elf lady, who pointed a finger at Caledor. ‘You just
sit there and do nothing.’

The Phoenix King had heard enough complaints to last a lifetime.

‘Who was it that did nothing when first I called for aid?’ Caledor
snapped, rising from his chair. ‘I told you to give me an army and was
told that there was none that could fight. Do not blame me for the
consequences of your own inaction.’

The lady was silenced by the outburst, but the noble who had first
spoken took up her cause.

‘With what would we fight?’ he said. ‘Goblets and forks? We were
promised weapons, armour. Where are they?’

Caledor frowned, surprised by the question.

‘The forges of Vaul burn day and night to equip our armies,’ said the
Phoenix King. ‘Shipments leave for every kingdom with each new moon.’

This was answered by a barrage of questions and denials.

‘No shipments have arrived in more than three years,’ said Tithrain,
waving for his people to quieten. ‘We thought perhaps that they went to
other kingdoms.’

‘That is not right,’ said Caledor, shaking his head. ‘Hotek assured me
that all who wished it would receive helm and shield, spear and scale.’

‘Perhaps they were waylaid by the enemy?’ suggested Tithrain. ‘The arms
did not reach Cothique.’

‘For three years?’ said one of the nobles with a derisive snort. ‘It was
an empty promise, admit it!’

‘Leave me,’ said the king, sitting down, chin in hand.

There were a few quiet protests, quickly stilled by Tithrain. The prince
led his people out of the tent, casting a worried glance back at the
Phoenix King at the door.

‘What does this mean?’ asked the young prince.

‘Nothing good,’ replied Caledor.

When he was alone, the Phoenix King summoned Carathril and dictated a
letter to Hotek, instructing the high priest of Vaul to meet him in Tor
Caled to explain the discrepancy. Another letter he sent to Dorien,
informing his brother that he would return shortly and to expect Hotek’s
arrival. He chose not to pass on the news of the missing shipments,
fearing his brother would react for the worse.

Before he could depart, Caledor had to make sure that Yvresse was free
from threat. The border with Cothique was narrow, flanked by the
mountains and the sea. The terrain had allowed the druchii to seize the
kingdom with relative ease, but also made the route into the
neighbouring kingdom predictable and simple to guard. As long as Thyriol
held sway over Saphery and the Lothern fleet protected the Shifting
Isles that stretched from the Yvressian coast, the druchii could not
launch a surprise attack.

Not that Caledor expected any further offence soon. From the reports of
the lucky few who had crossed the border since the new invasion, the
druchii were more concerned with subjugating those already within
Cothique.

The Phoenix King spent a considerable time with his commanders, making
detailed dispositions for the army. The dragons were his greatest
weapon, though far from all-powerful as had been demonstrated, and it
was the princes of Caledor that would form a hard-hitting reserve, based
in Yvresse. Should the druchii attempt to cross into Yvresse, the dragon
­riders would respond in strength while the rest of the loyal forces
gathered to meet the threat.

Confident that he could return to his kingdom to address the issue of
the armaments, Caledor took flight on Maedrethnir. On his way to
Caledor, the Phoenix King met with Thyriol in Saphery and Prince
Aerethenis in Lothern. All was as well as could be expected. The dark
mages had ravaged much of Saphery with their sorceries but had been
driven into the mountains by those loyal to Thyriol. Aerethenis assured
him that his fleet held the Inner Sea against any encroachment from
northern Ellyrion or devastated Avelorn.

There was little news from the west, which troubled the Phoenix King,
but for the moment he was convinced the focus of the druchii was on
Cothique. Diverting to Tor Elyr for several days, Caledor spoke with
Finudel and Athielle, who kept watch on the druchii-held fortresses in
the north and the keeps guarding the mountain passes. There was little
activity to report and it seemed that for the moment the war had shifted
to the east in its entirety.

Worryingly, all of the princes spoke of receiving fewer weapons than had
been promised, and none for some time. Caledor hoped that Hotek would
offer reasonable explanation for the deficits – a shortage of ore
perhaps – but he feared forces more sinister were at work, though he
could not see in what way. If there were traitors in the Caledorian
fleet he would have thought their treachery would have been revealed by
now; the druchii sorely needed ships to contend with the vessels of
Lothern.

Finally coming to Tor Caled, the Phoenix King was greeted with little
ceremony. Such warriors as might present a guard of honour were more
gainfully employed patrolling the border with Tiranoc. Dorien met him
with a handful of household servants and the two of them made their way
to the throne room.

‘I feel like a caged animal,’ said Dorien as Caledor settled into his
throne. Retainers appeared with food and wine, but Caledor waved away
the fare, concerned by his brother’s attitude.

‘I cannot be king unless I know Caledor is safe,’ he replied. ‘I have
entrusted its guardianship to you, because I know you will protect our
lands before all other things.’

‘There is no war here,’ complained Dorien. ‘There is not a whisper of
battle from Tiranoc, and I sit idle. Finudel does not need my aid, and
there are no cults to drive out. I am wasted here, Imrik, when I could
be fighting in Cothique.’

‘When I am ready to drive the druchii from Cothique, I will call on
you,’ said the king, ignoring his brother’s use of his old name. ‘You
are the first I would have fighting beside me.’

‘So why are you here and not leading your army into Cothique?’ said
Dorien, helping himself to some wine.

‘Has Hotek not yet arrived?’ said the Phoenix King.

‘No, I have not seen him for more than a year,’ replied Dorien. He
noticed his brother’s grim expression and shared his frown. ‘Is
something amiss?’

‘I do not know,’ said Caledor. ‘The supply of weapons has dwindled. I
summoned Hotek to meet me. He should have arrived by now.’

‘Perhaps his labours occupy him,’ said Dorien. ‘He spoke to me of his
desire to create the greatest artifices since the war against the
daemons. He has forged several magical blades for the princes of
Caledor.’

‘Whatever it is, it can wait for the moment,’ said Caledor. ‘We will go
to the shrine tomorrow. Tonight, I will spend with my family.’

And so it was. Anatheria and Tythanir met the Phoenix King in his
apartments. His wife’s welcome was genuinely affectionate, much to his
surprise, though his son carried himself with polite aloofness.

After a meal, the three of them sat on a balcony overlooking Tor Caled.
For the first time in more than three years, Caledor wore robes instead
of armour. He savoured the wine from his crystal goblet – a vintage from
before the war – and enjoyed a brief moment of simple contentment before
wider affairs crowded his thoughts again.

‘When do I learn the words of dragon-taming?’ asked Tythanir.

‘When you are old enough,’ replied Caledor.

‘I will reach my maturity in two years’ time,’ said his son. ‘Dorien
refuses to teach them to me. How will I be ready to join the war when I
come of age if I do not know how to be a dragon prince?’

‘Dorien is right,’ said Anatheria. ‘You are too young to think about
such things.’

‘When I am an adult, you will have to teach me,’ said Tythanir.

‘I am Phoenix King,’ said Caledor, smiling grimly. ‘I do not have to do
anything.’

‘And I am your heir,’ replied Tythanir. ‘One day I will be Phoenix King.
I learn the sword and spear and bow, and as a prince of Caledor I have
the right to know the secrets of the dragons! Would you rather your
successor knew nothing of war?’

‘The other princes will choose the next Phoenix King,’ said Caledor. His
smiled faded. ‘I could die in the next battle and you would certainly
not be chosen. If you become king, welcome it. Do not expect or desire
it. Look to the folly of Malekith if you feel otherwise.’

‘Nevertheless, I will one day rule Caledor, and it would be shameful if
I was not a full dragon rider.’

‘You have still to master your weapons,’ said Caledor. ‘Do not think
yourself ready to fight.’

‘I shall be one of the greatest warriors in Ulthuan,’ declared the young
prince. ‘A leader does so by example.’

‘And so does a father,’ said Caledor. ‘When you are old enough, I shall
teach you the secrets of the dragons, but not before.’

Annoyed, Tythanir excused himself and left the king and his wife looking
over the city.

‘He is proud to be the son of the Phoenix King,’ said Anatheria.

‘He should be proud to be a prince of Caledor above all other things,’
the king replied. ‘No good comes of seeking high station.’

‘Do not hold him back with your own reluctance to rule,’ replied his
wife. ‘Ambition is not always the same as greed.’

‘It matters little,’ said Caledor. ‘I strive for victory, but it is not
close. A year from now, who can say how the world will be? I cannot see
tomorrow, and Tythanir’s future is a long way away.’

‘Do not be disheartened,’ said Anatheria. She moved from her chair to
sit on the couch beside Caledor, laying a hand on his knee. ‘I spoke
with Carathril and he told me of what happens in Cothique. It is not
your fault that the people suffer. You did the right thing.’

‘I know that,’ said Caledor. ‘I do not regret my decision.’

‘And if Athel Toralien has fallen, you can expect reinforcements from
the colonies.’

‘They have not yet arrived,’ said Caledor. ‘The only cause for delay can
be reluctance. I fear that with the Naggarothi driven from Elthin Arvan,
the leaders of the other cities are not so concerned with the fate of
Ulthuan.’

‘As king you must make it their concern,’ said Anatheria.

Caledor nodded in half-hearted fashion.

‘We shall see,’ said the king. ‘Let us see what tomorrow brings.’

Tomorrow brought an overcast sky and a chill wind as Dorien and Caledor
flew south to Vaul’s Anvil, greatest shrine to the crippled Smith God of
the elves. The evening was settling fast when Caledor saw a bright fire
in the distance. Situated at the very end of the Dragon Spine range,
separated by a wide valley from the rest of the mountains, a solitary
peak cast its shadow over the water’s edge, shrouded with cloud and
fume. To the northern slope the dragons turned, where steps were carved
into the black rock, winding back and forth up the steep incline leading
to a carved opening flanked by two gigantic pillars. Atop the columns
were statues of bent-legged Vaul; on the left the god of craftsmen
laboured over an anvil, a hammer of thunderbolts in his hand; on the
right he was bound in chains, weeping over the Sword of Khaine he had
forged.

Before these pillars landed the dragons. Their arrival did not go
unnoticed, and acolytes garbed in heavy aprons and thick gloves came out
of the shrine’s opening to assist the dragon princes in dismounting.

‘Your arrival is unexpected,’ said one of the young elves, his undamaged
eyes wide with surprise. ‘Is it Hotek you seek?’

‘It is,’ said Caledor. ‘Take us to him.’

‘He is busy at the moment,’ replied the acolyte. ‘He and the principal
smiths have been working hard in the inner sanctum. I shall send word
that you are here.’

Caledor permitted himself and Dorien to be led into the caves of the
shrine. They were taken to a side chamber whose smooth rock walls were
covered with thick tapestries showing the various labours of Vaul and
his priests forging weapons for Aenarion. The sound of hammers rang
through the bare corridors and the smell of sulphur tainted every
breath.

The two princes waited for some time, each keeping his thoughts unsaid,
until they were stirred by the echo of raised voices. The words could
not be discerned through the distortion of the shrine’s maze of chambers
and tunnels, but there was anger in the tone.

‘Hotek seems displeased to have guests,’ said Dorien with a smile.

‘This is something more,’ said Caledor, standing up.

As the king got to his feet, a scream of pain rang down through the
shrine followed by panicked cries. Caledor dashed from the chamber,
sword drawn from his belt, Dorien close behind.

After a short distance, they came upon another room, lined with barrels.
A surprised acolyte greeted them with wide eyes.

‘Where is Hotek?’ demanded Caledor.

The acolyte dumbly pointed to one of the two doors leading from the
other side of the room and the Phoenix King ran on as more screams
sounded from the shrine’s depths.

They came out into a wide cavern, split by a river of fire over which a
narrow bridge arched. More statues of Vaul flanked the crossing, each
bearing the lightning-bolt hammer in upraised fist. On the far side of
the chasm, through the fire and haze of the lava river, elves clad in
the robes and accoutrements of priests struggled with each other.

Caledor dashed across the bridge with Dorien at his heels. Reaching the
height of the span, he saw two huge bronze doors were open in the wall
at the far side of the chamber. Beyond flickered the light of furnaces,
and he could feel the trickle of magic seeping from the open portal.

Running down the other side of the bridge, Caledor was unsure what was
happening. There were almost a dozen priests fighting, some with forge
hammers, others with knives or swords snatched from the armouries. A few
wrestled with bare hands, trying to drag their opponents towards the
fire chasm. Four bodies lay between the two sides, blood pooling on the
bare rock.

Caledor did not know with which group to side. There were five priests
holding the path to the open doors and the others were trying to get
past. He did not know if the traitors were attempting to seize the inner
shrine, or if they were the ones stopping any interference.

‘Make way for the Phoenix King,’ bellowed Dorien, running past Caledor
with sword in hand, answering the question for him. The priests trying
to get into the sanctum forge parted; the others closed ranks against
the Caledorian prince.

Dorien ducked under a swung hammer and drove the point of his sword into
the wielder’s gut. Caledor reached him, charging shoulder-first into
another traitor priest, sending him tumbling to the ground. His sword
found the priest’s chest, opening up ribs and breastbone with a trail of
fire.

Behind him the other priests rallied, charging into the elves holding
the door with fierce shouts. The air crackled with magical energy as
rune-etched blades and hammers clashed. Caledor hacked the leg from
another foe and leapt over him as he fell. Without a glance at the
others, he sprinted into the inner sanctum.

The shrine room was a large cavern overlooking the main crater of Vaul’s
Anvil. A sea of fire boiled, kept at bay by magical wards, redirected
into the furnaces lining one side of the temple-forge. There were
several anvils and workbenches, but at the centre of the room was the
main altar-anvil. Gilded and carved with runes, it glowed with mystical
power, the force of it stopping Caledor in his stride. Several acolytes
were hurrying out of a side entrance, carrying what appeared to be
pieces of black armour.

Caledor spared them only a glance. Behind the altar-anvil stood Hotek.

He was clad in his ceremonial robes, bare arms covered with enchanted
torcs and bracelets, an iron collar about his throat. In his left hand
he held a sword, its blade like a sliver of midnight, a black streak in
the air. In his right he hefted the Hammer of Vaul, used for the forging
of the elves’ greatest artefacts, its golden head inscribed with
lightning bolts.

‘Surrender!’ shouted Caledor, taking a step.

‘Stay where you are,’ warned Hotek, raising the Hammer of Vaul above his
head.

‘What have you done?’ said the Phoenix King, circling slowly to his
right, seeking to get between Hotek and the tunnel down which the
acolytes had fled.

‘Who was it that crippled our god?’ said the priest, a manic edge to his
voice. ‘Who was it that bound him to his anvil to labour on the
deadliest of weapons?’

‘Khaine,’ replied Caledor, knowing the myth well.

‘And who are you to do the same to me?’ said Hotek. ‘Why labour for the
servant when one can labour for the master?’

‘You are in league with the druchii,’ said Caledor, taking a few steps
closer to the priest.

‘The “Dark Ones”?’ laughed Hotek. ‘How simplistic! You are blinded by
your name-calling. They serve a greater purpose and will see our people
restored to greatness.’

‘What purpose?’ asked Caledor, edging closer still.

‘To rule the world, of course,’ said Hotek.

‘What did Morathi offer you?’ Caledor was almost within reach of the
priest, a leap and a slash of his sword away from ending this. He
hesitated, wanting to hear the reply. He heard a shout from Dorien at
the doorway and turned briefly to wave him back. ‘What could a servant
of Vaul desire?’

‘The secrets of the dwarfs,’ replied Hotek. ‘I have tried for an age to
understand the workings of their runes, but they defy me. But with the
power of true magic, the strength of sorcery, I have prised those
secrets from the dwarfen trinkets. The power will be mine and with it I
shall surpass even the Dragontamer in my accomplishments for Vaul.’

‘You are corrupt,’ said Caledor. ‘Everything you have made is tainted.’

The Phoenix King tensed, ready for the lunge.

‘I am blind but still see your intent,’ shrieked Hotek. ‘I warned you!’

The priest brought the hammer down onto the anvil with all his strength.
The cavern filled with an explosion of light and heat. The shrine
reverberated with an almighty crack, as if at the centre of a storm
cloud, the floor and walls shaking with the detonation. Forks of energy
flared from the anvil, blinding Caledor. A bolt struck him in the
shoulder, sending him spinning to the ground, sword falling from his
numbed grasp.

Through streaming eyes, Caledor saw Hotek unharmed, running into the
side tunnel. Dizzy from the wave of power that had smashed into him, the
Phoenix King stumbled and fell as he tried to get to his feet. He raised
a gauntlet to his top lip and saw blood on his finger from his nose. His
ears rang with the after-echoes of the hammer’s striking and blotches of
white swam across his vision.

Rolling over to see how Dorien fared, he saw his brother lying against
one of the open doors, head to one side. For a moment the Phoenix King
feared his brother dead, neck snapped, but Dorien moaned weakly and
lifted a hand to the side of his helm.

The surviving priests and acolytes came running into the room. Their
calls came as distant, tinny shrieks and Caledor could not understand a
word that was said to him. He allowed himself to be hauled to his feet,
head spinning. He waved the priests towards the tunnel where Hotek had
fled, but they shook their heads vehemently, their arguments lost amidst
the rushing in Caledor’s ears and the pounding of his heart.

A thorough search of Hotek’s chambers uncovered a series of journals and
a number of strange artefacts the priests identified as crude
experiments in rune-forging. The most recent manuscripts were missing,
presumably removed by Hotek’s followers, but Caledor sat down with the
others and spent the night reading them while Dorien went with the
priests in a search of the tunnel labyrinth that criss-crossed the
volcanic rock into which the shrine had been carved.

They returned shortly after dawn, reporting failure.

‘None knows the tunnels better than Hotek,’ said one of the priests. ‘He
has spent centuries exploring them. I fear he had his escape
long-planned and even an army would not find him, and we have only two
dozen at best to search.’

‘Where do you think he will go?’ said Dorien.

‘To his masters, and mistress, in Nagarythe,’ said Caledor, lifting up a
journal. ‘Morathi ensnared him with pride and curiosity long before the
war began. She gave him dwarfen treasures to investigate, a riddle she
knew he could not solve. When he reported failure, she sent one of her
sorceresses to aid him. With dark magic they unlocked some of the
rune-forging secrets and Hotek was trapped upon a traitor’s path.’

‘He has spent many years on a secret labour,’ said the priest, looking
through one of the leather-bound volumes. ‘He has kept meticulous notes,
but I cannot decipher many of them; they refer to practices of dark
magic and sacrifice that I do not understand.’

‘He is making a suit of armour,’ said Caledor. ‘I saw his followers
fleeing with it, and his journal speaks of such an endeavour beginning
just as the war with the Naggarothi started. For what purpose he did not
record. The other priests under his control have been using the forge to
supply the druchii with enchanted weapons, and diverted the arms
shipments to Nagarythe.’

‘It is a long treachery,’ said Dorien, ‘and an injurious one at that.’

‘He has taken the Hammer of Vaul,’ added the priest. ‘Without it, our
forging is much diminished. Hotek was the most accomplished of us, and
now the greatest enchantments are lost, no doubt to be turned against us
by the druchii.’

‘It is a sour year indeed,’ said Dorien. ‘It seems the forces arrayed
against us continue to grow, while we are sapped of our strength.’

‘Yes,’ said Caledor, nodding mournfully.

‘We must find a way to strike back, even the balance,’ said Dorien.

For the first time since becoming Phoenix King, Caledor felt the task
ahead impossible. For every victory he had won, the enemy came again.
Every advantage he thought he possessed – the dragons, the mages of
Saphery, the power of the Everqueen, the artifices of Vaul – had been
taken from him. Not in thirteen years of war had he considered defeat,
but now he could not see how victory might be gained.

He looked at Dorien, saw faith and determination written in his
brother’s expression. The priests of Vaul waited expectantly, perhaps
with some desperation, for the Phoenix’s King’s reply. He had no answer
for them. There was no grand strategy that would turn the current
situation. He felt helpless and hopeless, and the burden of duty weighed
more heavily upon him than ever before.

‘We fight on,’ he said, the words sounding hollow in his head but
bringing encouragement to the others.

The burning would not stop. It raged in Malekith’s mind long after his
body was dead to the pain of the flames. Had his father felt like this?
Is this what drove him to the Sword of Khaine, to escape the touch of
Asuryan’s blessing?

The thought calmed the prince of Nagarythe. As his father had endured,
so would he. What was his torment but another chance to prove his
superiority? When he next stood before the princes to declare his right
to be Phoenix King none of them would argue. It would be plain for them
to see the strength of his character. Who of them could deny that he had
passed Asuryan’s test? He smiled at the thought, cracked flesh creasing
across the remains of his face.

Their resistance was fuelled by jealousy. The usurper, Bel Shanaar, had
groomed Imrik like a prize stallion, though in truth he was nothing more
than a plodding mule. The other princes had been blinded to the truth by
the whispers of Bel Shanaar. When the evidence of Malekith’s acceptance
by Asuryan was presented, they would see through the falsehoods woven by
the Caledorian and his supporters. Perhaps even Imrik would bend his
knee, as Malekith had so graciously done at the foot of Bel Shanaar.

The curtain surrounding the bed stirred and Morathi bent over him.
Malekith tried to rise to kiss her cheek but his body failed him. A
spasm of pain along his spine trapped him beneath the covers, as though
a great weight was laid upon him. His mouth twisted into a snarl of
anguish.

‘Be still, my beautiful son,’ said Morathi, laying a hand on his brow.
‘I have someone you should greet.’

An emaciated elf moved up beside Malekith’s mother, face almost white,
eyes pale and unseeing though they fixed upon the prince.

‘Greetings, your majesty,’ he said. ‘I am Hotek.’

The memory of the name surfaced through the fires of Malekith’s mind.
The priest of Vaul. The one who would restore him. If he was here, that
meant...

‘It is ready?’ said Malekith, voice cracking with joy. ‘It is time?’

‘Not yet,’ said Morathi. ‘Caledor chased Hotek from his shrine and he
has come to Anlec to finish his work.’

‘The interruption, the loss of the shrine, have added perhaps only a
year to my labours,’ said the priest. ‘Yes, I am confident. Four more
years and the work will be done.’

Four years? The prospect made the flames rage through Malekith’s
thoughts. Four more years imprisoned within this husk of a body. Four
more years could see his armies destroyed, his kingdom overthrown. Why
did the torment have to continue?

In the chambers below, the elves going about the palace paused as a
piercing cry of agony and woe rang through the rooms and corridors.
Shrugging, thinking that Morathi tormented some fresh victim for purpose
or pleasure, they continued in their work without a second thought.

Looking at the tips of her fingers, Illeanith wondered if the black
stain had spread since the day before. Her fingernails were utterly
black and the flesh of her fingertips a darkening grey, touchless as she
tapped them gently along the flat of her dagger’s thin blade. It was not
just her fingers that disturbed her – something sat in the pit of her
stomach, a malign presence that seemed to be feeding from her, draining
her strength and spirit. Only the dark magic kept it suppressed, and
only the dark magic kept back the necrotism crawling up her fingers.

The gagged sacrifice looked at her with wide tear-filled eyes, the blue
of them ever so bright in the candlelight. He had stopped struggling
against the iron chains that bound him to the stone altar and now
watched Illeanith carefully, eyes returning again and again to the
rune-carved knife in her hands.

‘Your death will have a greater purpose than your life,’ she told her
captive. He was a tailor, she remembered. He had once fashioned a silk
cloak for her father, Thyriol. She looked at his hands, so slender and
nimble as they had wielded thread and needle. ‘Those lovely fingers,
when they twitch their last, will bring life back to mine.’

He was naked, his skin already prepared with the unguents and runes she
had learnt from the grimoire. She had studied its pages at length, in
secret, and knew many of the incantations by rote. This one was
trickier, incorporating not just elvish words, but phrases and noises
from the Dark Tongue, the language of daemons and the beasts of Chaos.

Illeanith read aloud, moving the point of her knife to the prisoner’s
throat. She stopped, distracted, trying to remember the unfortunate’s
name. It did not matter. She pushed aside the thought and started again,
this time more forcefully, concentrating on every syllable.

As she spoke, the brands and scars upon the prisoner’s flesh began to
weep a thin stream of blood. He grunted in pain, teeth gritted, chest
heaving. Illeanith ignored him, focussing on the enunciation of every
verse, ensuring that she spoke every word precisely and correctly. She
could feel the dark magic gathering in the chamber, seeping up from the
lower levels of the tower like a tree drawing nourishment from its
roots.

The coils of dark energy mingled with the blood, turning it to a deeper
red. The prisoner was panting heavily, eyes roaming the room as
tenebrous shapes gathered around the white-painted rafters and shadows
coiled across the bare pale stones of the walls.

Finishing her incantation, Illeanith gently slid the dagger into the
captive’s throat. He gurgled and died, slumping to the slab without any
undue fuss. Blood bubbled from the wound as the sorceress placed the
dagger to one side. Illeanith dipped her fingers into the crimson stream
and quickly drew a rune upon each of her cheeks with the thick fluid.
The bloody runes upon the body were glowing now, their gleam edged with
a disturbing darkness, flowing together to form a shifting aura of
power.

‘Mistress!’

Illeanith turned, scowling as one of her acolytes burst into the
chamber. She snapped at him to get out and returned her attention to the
ceremony.

‘Something approaches from the north, mistress,’ said the acolyte. ‘A
strange cloud that does not move with the wind.’

Illeanith stopped just as she was dipping her fingers into the sheen of
magical energy encasing the body. She took a breath, ignoring the
concerns that suddenly crowded her thoughts, and wove a sigil with her
fingertips. Where they passed, her hands left trails of glimmering
darkness.

She stopped, uttered a few final words and drew the magical energy into
herself.

‘It is Saphethion, mistress.’

Illeanith knew this already. Now was not the time to be distracted. She
shuddered, a low mewl escaping her lips as the life force of the dead
elf flowed into her body. The thing lurking in her gut subsided and she
held up her hands, watching the greyness recede. Still there was a faint
darkness about her skin and nails, the corruption not wholly expunged by
the spell.

She turned to her acolyte, picking up her knife. She saw others crowding
at the doorway.

‘I said I was not to be interrupted,’ Illeanith told him.

‘But mistress, Saphethion...’

Illeanith rammed the dagger under the acolyte’s ribs, puncturing his
lungs. He collapsed to the stone floor with a gasp. The sorceress looked
at the others in her cabal.

‘No interruptions,’ she snapped. ‘Do you want be torn apart by daemons,
or dragged to the Realm of Chaos?’

‘We have to leave here,’ said Andurial. ‘The floating city will be here
before dusk.’

‘No,’ said Illeanith. ‘We have prepared. We do not run any more.’

‘We cannot face the might of Saphethion,’ said the sorcerer. ‘It is
folly. We have not heard from the others. We may be the last of our kin
to remain in Saphery.’

‘And if we leave, we shall never return,’ said Illeanith. She strode out
of the chamber, Andurial and the adepts falling behind her as she made
her way to the staircase that spiralled up to the tower’s roof. ‘We
shall show them that we are not defeated yet. Morathi has promised
support and we will not fail her.’

From the flat roof of the tower, Illeanith could see the length of the
valley stretching northward. The slopes were covered with snow, a
uniform blanket of whiteness that lay across the frozen streams and dark
boulders, swathed fir forests and hid the caverns and lodges that dotted
the mountainsides.

Against the grey sky there was a lighter patch of cloud, tinged with a
golden gleam that had nothing to do with the sun dipping below the peaks
to the west. Illeanith watched it for a while, her followers silently
standing behind her.

‘Bring up all of the prisoners we have left,’ she said, looking at her
acolytes. ‘You know what to do.’

‘We can still get away,’ said Andurial. ‘The tunnels beneath the tower
lead to the south. Why stay to be trapped like rats?’

‘They killed my son!’ snarled Illeanith. ‘He killed my son, his own
grandson. I will make him pay for such a crime with blood. Cease your
cowardly doubts and begin the preparations.’

From his own pinnacle at the heart of Saphethion, Thyriol looked south
towards the citadel jutting from the forested slope of Anul Tinrainnith.
He could feel the dark magic that haunted this place and knew that he
had correctly divined Illeanith’s hiding place. She was the last of the
sorcerers and sorceresses that had turned against him. And she had come
here, to the tower where she had been born. It was so predictable,
Thyriol was a little disappointed.

In the valley below, covered by the shadow of the floating city, four
thousand archers and spearmen marched towards the tower. Thyriol
suspected that Illeanith had followers of her own who would fight –
cultists and agents of the undergods, friends who had remained loyal
after her treachery, locals bewitched or threatened into service. For
all that, the ruler of Saphery knew that this battle was unlikely to be
decided by an arrow or spearpoint. Magic was the weapon both sides had
employed, and it was magic that had laid waste to so much of his
kingdom.

Even though it was his daughter he faced, Thyriol had no thought of
mercy for the sorceress he was to face. She was blighted by her hunger
for power, and countless were the lives that had been taken on her quest
to master the darker arts. Thyriol could detect the taint of blood
sacrifice in the winds of magic.

As the sun was almost set, the sky coloured deep red and purple to the
west, Saphethion reached the tower. Thousands of magical lanterns
gleamed from the windows of the city, creating an artificial field of
multicoloured stars over the valley.

The tower also shone, with light of unnatural yellow hue and forbidding
red. The ruddy glow dappled the snow-tipped trees and reflected from the
icy slopes above.

In the chambers beneath the palace, the mages of Thyriol gathered to
begin their work. He could picture them now, gathered in a circle around
the giant crystal at the centre of Saphethion, clad in white robes,
laden with charms and bracelets, crowns and rings; the chanting would be
calm and quiet, slowly drawing the magic of the world into the shining
diamond-like heart of the city.

In contrast the mountainside and the tower’s courtyard echoed with
pained screams and shrill incantations. Thyriol felt the churning of
dark magic below as his followers brought Saphethion closer to the
citadel. Beasts of the mountains bayed and howled as they were let free
to run amok in the valley. Hoarse shouts announced the emergence of a
column of black-armoured warriors from the tower’s gate, their jagged
spearpoints gleaming in the flickering light of torches.

He let his mind touch upon that of Menreir, who was leading the ceremony
within the city’s depths. All was ready and he commanded his followers
to unleash the power of Saphethion’s heart.

Magic crackled across the city, leaping in sparks and bolts from the
tips of the towers, crackling along a latticework of crystal woven into
the structure of every building upon Saphethion’s craggy foundation. The
city shone like a star for a moment as the magic blazed along streets
and across rooftops.

The crystal lodes within the city’s bedrock glittered into life, bathing
the tower below with white light. Thyriol gave the order and the mages
unleashed the fury of Saphery.

Blue lightning rained down upon the tower, forks of magical energy
streaming from the underside of Saphethion. Bricks exploded and roof
tiles shattered, stones crumbled and flagstones erupted into splinters
under the onslaught. The magical storm raged across the walls and
towers, flaring in intensity before dimming and then flaring again.
Gatehouses collapsed, their thick doors turned to ash, their ramparts
hurled into the air.

Yet the central spire remained untouched, surrounded by a miasma of
curling black energy that leached away the power of the magical
onslaught. Illeanith knew well the power of Saphethion, had learnt the
enchantments that powered the city, and had devised counterspells to
protect her cabal.

More than this, she knew the city’s weaknesses too.

Thyriol felt the surge of dark magic and almost retched at the sensation
as dozens of sacrifices were made, their bloody, horrific deaths sending
a pulse of noxious energy through the winds of magic.

Balls of fire erupted from Illeanith’s towers, hurled upwards on columns
of dark energy powered by the blood of the slain. They crashed into the
rock of Saphethion, smashing the crystal conduits, shattering the geodes
and channels that linked the city’s magical web together.

For a long time the two sides battled, exchanging lightning and fire
that melted the snow and set fires in the forest on the slope above the
tower. The sounds of fighting drifted up from the valley where Thyriol’s
soldiers met the followers of Illeanith.

Saphethion slid over the tower like an eclipse in reverse, obscuring the
citadel from Thyriol’s view. The city shuddered with the impact of every
magical bolt and hummed with the power of high magic. Around him the
mages fought for control of the winds of magic, wrestling with the
followers of Illeanith below, each trying to draw in more power than the
other. Thyriol had his mages and the crystal heart of Saphethion;
Illeanith had her cabal with their bloody knives and a seemingly endless
stream of victims to sacrifice.

Slowly Thyriol won the duel, the vortex raging and swirling around the
floating city as he struggled for control. The fires from the tower
diminished and then died out altogether, yet still the dark shield
around the central keep held firm against the renewed storm of
Saphethion.

Thyriol called for the attack to cease and left his tower for the
courtyard. Here servants waited with his pegasus. Mounting the winged
steed, the Sapherian prince flew high above Saphethion, joined by dozens
of lesser mages on the backs of giant eagles and more pegasi.

With blazing staff in hand, he signalled for them to descend on the
tower.

Illeanith watched the mages cascading over the edge of the city towards
her, each holding a gleaming staff and burning sword.

She had miscalculated.

‘Turn them back,’ she snapped at her followers. She waved a dagger at
the remaining sacrifices, no more than a dozen left amidst the slaughter
atop the tower. ‘Use them all.’

She hurried down the stairs to her chambers as the snap of magical
lightning and the shriek of the sacrifices erupted from the tower roof.
Wrapping a thick cloak about her shoulders, she hastily filled a bag
with books and sorcerous accoutrements. The sounds of her adepts dying
rang down from above and she quickened her pace, dashing down the steps
towards the catacombs. The tower shuddered again, sending plaster dust
showering from the ceiling. Debris filled the stairways and passages,
and twice she had to use her powers to clear a route, blasting through
the obstacles with raw bolts of magic.

As Illeanith descended the ebb and flow of magic increased. The stones
of the tower vibrated with energy and the air was thick with dark power
seeping up from the rocks below. Flames crackled and unnatural wails
sounded from above.

She heard her father shouting her name, his voice echoing along
galleries and down stairwells. Illeanith did not hesitate in her flight,
slamming shut a portcullis behind her with a wave of her hand as she ran
into a rough-hewn chamber under the citadel. With a few prepared words,
she muttered an incantation as she ran. The rock walls throbbed with
power and the ground rumbled for several heartbeats. With a deafening
crack the ceiling behind her collapsed, sealing the vault.

Ahead the dark tunnels stretched under the mountains. She pulled a wand
from her belt and its tip gleamed with power, the light bouncing from
moist walls and the uneven, puddle-littered floor. The drip and trickle
of water was everywhere.

It was not the end she had anticipated, but she was not yet dead.
Illeanith was not so proud that she could not admit defeat. One day she
would avenge herself upon her father.

As she reached a fork in the tunnels she felt the surge of magic and
heard a pounding against the rockfall she had created. Her pursuers were
not far behind and it was a long way to Nagarythe.
