
SIXTEEN 

A Journey to Darkness

Northwards marched the caravan of Malekith. At their head, the prince
led the column from atop an immense black steed bridled with silver and
black leather. Behind him rode six hundred knights of Nagarythe, their
silver and black pennants snapping in the chill autumn air. With them,
they had brought news that already many cultists had surrendered to
Malekith’s soldiers, throwing themselves upon the mercy of the prince.
The people of Nagarythe, long cowed by the cultists who had held sway in
Malekith’s absence, had come forth from their homes in celebration. Many
of Nagarythe’s citizens had been forced into serving the cults against
their will, enslaved with threats of sacrifice and violence. As if
unshackled from a great yoke, they had thrown off the tyranny of the
dark priests and priestesses and taken to the streets to proclaim the
victorious return of their rightful ruler.

Not only fair wishes from Bel Shanaar accompanied Malekith on his march
north; three hundred chariots of Tiranoc went with him as a symbol of
the Phoenix King’s support. More horsemen had recently arrived from
Ellyrion, despatched on the orders of Finudel. Seven hundred reaver
knights had crossed the Annulii Mountains along the Unicorn Pass, the
Eyin Uirithas, and met the caravan some one hundred leagues from Anlec.
In their wake came ten thousand spearmen, assembled from across Eataine
and Yvresse; even now they crossed the Inner Sea to join the host that
marched against the dark cultists.

With them came a long baggage train, as any army on the march needed an
unending tide of supplies to keep it on the move. The wagons of Tor
Anroc were as larger versions of their sleek chariots, each pulled by
four high-stepping steeds, the backs of the wains covered with gaily
covered awnings and hung with pennants and flags of the kingdom. A
hundred in all followed in the army’s wake, filled with cooks and
fletchers, smiths and ostlers, bakers and armourers and all the gear of
their trades. Priests and priestesses came also, of Asuryan and Isha,
and astromancers of Lileath, diviners of Kourdanrin and other such
soothsayers, chroniclers and clerics as Bel Shanaar had seen fit to
grant the expedition.

Though the elves of Tiranoc and Ellyrion were glad of such mystical
companions, the Naggarothi, and in particular Malekith, paid them little
heed and avoided their gatherings.

Amongst the host rode Carathril, still under oath as Bel Shanaar’s
herald, to act for the Phoenix King in this endeavour. He felt as much
relief and anticipation as the princes, and riding alongside the prince
of Nagarythe filled him with a confidence he had never before felt.

One bright morning they came upon a stone bridge that soared elegantly
across a frothing river. This was the Naganath, which spilled straight
from the mountains and across to the sea in a sweeping torrent. Beyond
its foaming waters lay Nagarythe.

Malekith’s gaze was distant, directed even further north, towards Anlec.
His face betrayed no emotion, yet inside his thoughts were mixed. For
almost his entire life he had sworn never to set foot here again until
he was ready to take his rightful place. Excitement bubbled up inside
him at the prospect of the events he saw unfolding in his head. Yet they
were tinged with sadness, and not a little regret. Just before they
crossed the bridge, Malekith signalled the column to halt and swung down
from his saddle. Sensing Carathril’s gaze upon him, Malekith turned to
the herald and smiled.

‘It has been more than thirteen hundred years since I last trod upon
those lands,’ Malekith said, his voice quiet. ‘It has been more than
one-and-a-half thousand since I took up the crown of Nagarythe, under
the shadow of my father’s sacrifice. Of that time, I have spent more of
my life upon foreign soil than I have my homeland.’

‘It must feel good to return,’ said Carathril.

‘Yes, it does feel good,’ said Malekith with a nod. He nodded even more
firmly and then grinned. Then he broke into a laugh and his eyes
glittered. ‘Very good!’

Carathril laughed with him, realising how much of an understatement he
had uttered. Malekith’s mood swiftly turned sombre though, and once
again he cast his gaze northwards.

‘I have been remiss in my duties as ruler,’ Malekith said. ‘It is in my
absence that these depraved and reckless cults have flourished. From my
lands, from the realm forged from the blood of my father, has grown a
dark canker that poisons the heart of Ulthuan. That is a shame I cannot
bear, and I will expunge it.’

‘You cannot be blamed for the weaknesses and corruptions of others,’
Carathril said with a shake of his head. ‘The guilt for this malaise is
not yours.’

‘Not mine alone, I accept that,’ replied Malekith. ‘Yet we all bear some
responsibility for this degeneration of authority and tradition, and I
bear more than most.’

The prince swung himself back upon his steed and turned to face the
halted column. His voice rang loud and crisp in the morning air.

‘Remember that these are the sovereign lands of Nagarythe,’ he cried.
‘It is here that Aenarion the Defender built Anlec, and from here that
he rode forth to battle the daemons. I do not return to lead an
invasion. We do not come here as conquerors. We are liberators. We are
here to free this realm from the dark and terrible grip of its
depression and immorality. We are here to bring light where darkness has
settled. None shall be slain who offers repentance for his misdeeds.
None shall be punished who turns from his wayward path to rejoin the
side of the righteous. Fight first with your hearts before your swords.
Pity those that stand against us, but do not fear them, and do not hate
them. It is fear and hatred that has laid them so low, so we shall bring
them hope and we shall bring them salvation.’

Malekith drew his sword and held it aloft; its rune-etched blade
glimmered with blue fire. His voice rose to a triumphant shout.

‘The blood of our forefathers stains this earth! This is Nagarythe and
she bows to no darkness! I am prince here, these are my lands! I am
Malekith!’

A great roar erupted from the assembled army, from the throats of both
Naggarothi and elves of other realms. Malekith sheathed his sword and
snatched the standard from the hand of his aide. Wheeling his steed with
a flourish, Malekith urged on his mount and galloped across the bridge,
the silver and black banner of Nagarythe fluttering above him. Still
chanting, the column surged after him.

As the company made their way through Nagarythe, the truth of the
situation became ever clearer. In the first village they entered,
cheering crowds cast petals and blossoms, and a choir of children sang
praises to the soldiers accompanied by flutes and harps. The village
elder, a venerable elf with silver hair whose tresses reached her waist,
presented Malekith with a garland of mountain laurel, and showered
thanks upon Carathril and the others as they passed.

Dark-haired maidens presented the marching warriors with bundles of
flowers, and a few leapt upon the chariots to hug and kiss the crews.
Not even on the carnival days of Isha had Carathril known such
celebration, and his heart soared to see the joy in the eyes of the
villagers.

As they reached the central square, the mood changed. Here the
white-washed buildings were stained with soot, their doors and windows
charred. In the centre of the plaza huddled a group of some thirty
elves, surrounded by villagers with knives and spears at the ready.

The black dresses and robes of the captives were tattered and bloody,
and many bore grazes and bruises. A few bore more severe injuries,
cradling broken arms and bandaged cuts. Some had crudely shaven heads,
while others had runes of Asuryan daubed with white dye on their exposed
flesh.

A handful of cultists regarded the soldiers with defiant and sullen
eyes, their faces twisted with sneers; most had vacant gazes of shock,
and a few looked down in shame and buried the heads in their hands,
weeping. Pity, Malekith had said, and it was pity that filled the prince
as he looked upon these poor wretches. Malekith signalled for Carathril
to stop, and waved on the rest of the troop. The ruler of these
desperate people sat upon his majestic steed and looked down at the
prisoners, his face unmoving.

‘Traitor!’ shouted one of the cultists, a young elf clad only in a
loincloth, his bare flesh cut with dozens of small incisions; self-made
rather than inflicted by his captors. ‘Khaine shall not forgive such
treachery!’

Malekith did not react but simply continued to stare at the cultists,
though from the corner of his eye he saw Carathril flinch at the mention
of the Lord of Murder.

‘Ereth Khial will devour you, son of Aenarion!’ spat another degenerate,
an old man whose black and dark blue robes were torn to shreds.

‘Silence!’ said Carathril, drawing his sword and urging his steed
forwards. The cultists shrank back, cowed by his anger. ‘We do not
openly speak these names for a reason. That you consort with such gods
is proof of your guilt. Save your hexes and curses!’

A lissom elf, her hair waxed into long spines and dyed orange, stood and
bared herself to the company with a lewd smile. Scenes of licentious
acts were painted in blue dye across her breasts, stomach and thighs.

‘Perhaps Atharti’s blessings would please you more, my lord,’ she said,
running a hand over her pale skin. ‘There are those here who can attend
to your pleasure, whatever your desires may be.’

Malekith waved Carathril back and dismounted. He stood in front of the
consort of Atharti. Though she was attractive, it was disgust rather
than ardour that Malekith felt. Dark magic polluted her comely body.
Hiding his feelings, the prince calmly took off his cloak and wrapped it
around her, covering her naked form.

‘There is no pleasure in the degradation of others,’ Malekith said,
stroking the girl’s hair. ‘It is love not lust that we bring with us. I
see fear in your eyes, and that I understand. It is the retribution of
mortals not gods that fills you with dread. And I say to this, do not be
afraid. We are not here as executioners. We have not come to seek
vengeance in blood. Whatever your crimes, you shall be treated fairly
and with dignity. We do not judge you for your doubts and your
desperation. Your weakness is regrettable but no cause for punishment.
Some, I have no doubt, have trodden upon this path willingly and with
malice, and in time justice will find them. But even for them, there is
mercy and forgiveness. Healers shall attend to your ills, both physical
and spiritual. We shall bring forth the darkness that lingers within
you, and free you from its grip. In time, you will know peace and
harmony once more.’

Malekith ordered that the villagers bring fresh clothes for the
captives, and food and water. While the prince marshalled this activity
himself, he sent the greater part of the column onwards towards Anlec.
Once fed and clothed, the cultists were taken under escort and Malekith
resumed the march.

From the village, the road turned north-east, towards the mountains, and
rose steadily for several miles before cutting into thick woodland. Tall
pines formed a wall on either side of the column, and as the day wore on
the caravan was swathed with long shadows. No sound could be heard; an
eerie quiet stilled all noise from bird and mammal.

‘This is a queer land,’ Carathril remarked to himself. One of the
knights of Anlec heard him and heeled his horse over beside the herald.

‘This is Athel Sarui,’ the knight told him. ‘Forest of Silence’ the name
meant, but Carathril had not heard of this place before.

‘I see why it is so named,’ said Carathril. ‘Are you from this land?’

‘No,’ the knight replied quickly, taken aback by Carathril’s question.
‘No living souls save for the trees live here. It is said that beyond
the forest, at the feet of the mountains, there is a great cave. It is
one of the Adir Cynath, a gate to Mirai, the underworld. To wander close
to the mountains is to risk the gaze of Ereth Khial, and to be taken
into her darkness by the rephallim.’

Carathril shuddered at the mention of these forbidding names, of the
dark goddess of the dead and her bodiless servants. To hear them spoken
openly was unheard of in Lothern, for the cytharai, as the deeper gods
were known, were not openly worshipped by right-thinking folk. The cults
had embraced the dark promises of these thirsting entities, and by that
act even now plunged Ulthuan into turmoil. The knight recognised
Carathril’s expression of concern.

‘Fear not, captain,’ he said calmly, and produced a silver amulet from
beneath his mail shirt. It was shaped in the symbol of yenlui, the rune
of balance, and studded with three shining diamonds. ‘This was a gift
from a friend in Saphery, it will protect us. Those of us who dwell in
the north must oft speak these distasteful names, for many of the
darkest shrines to the dwellers beneath lie in our lands.’

‘And how is it that the heartland of Aenarion allows such practices?’
asked Carathril.

‘The cytharai must be appeased, from time to time,’ said the knight.
‘One does not ignore the gods without peril, especially those of vile
and short temper. And does not that blackest of places, the shrine to
the God of Murder, lie beyond our northern coast? Once it was that a
single priest or priestess would tend the shrines of the nightly lords
and ladies. He or she would entreat them to still their vengeance, and
placate them with sacrifices.’

The knight cast his gaze downwards.

‘On occasion, in desperate times, one must visit these dire abodes, for
there are some things beyond even the knowledge of Asuryan and Isha.
Even Aenarion sought their wisdom, and that is not to be undertaken
lightly. Many are the wards and blessings the priests can bestow upon
those who would supplicate themselves before the cytharai.’

‘Yet how did worship of gods so abhorrent spread so widely?’ said
Carathril.

‘In indolence or sorrow, more of our people turned to the cytharai to
ease their minds, to seek answers to questions perhaps best not asked,’
the knight told him. ‘Of loved ones long dead; of secrets lost in time;
of joys forgotten with the coming of Chaos. Fortified and gratified by
their indulgences, these misguided souls opened up the dark mysteries
and learned their ways. They perverted the rituals of appeasement and
turned them into ceremonies of praise. These dark acts they took with
them, ever in secret, and founded new shrines in other lands. In the
shadows, beyond the sight of right-minded folk, they practised their
evils, perfecting them, luring others into their depravity. For more
than five hundred years they have spread across Ulthuan, insinuating
themselves into homes and hostels, from the lowliest to the highest. Be
aware, the task we now undertake will be neither swift nor easy.’

‘And you, how did you not become ensnared or enslaved by these
pernicious shrine-folk?’ asked Carathril.

The knight tucked his talisman back beneath his shirt and then pulled
back his long black hair from the nape of his neck. A scar was there,
etched into his skin, in the shape of a curved dagger.

‘Who said that I did not?’ the knight said. ‘For many years I laboured
with the blades of Khaine, a holy executioner in Anlec. My father had
raised me within the cult, and I knew no different. It was only when he
asked me to cut out the heart of my sister that I slew him and fled with
her. We travelled across the sea to escape those that hunted us, and in
time I met with the prince and told him of the travails of our people. I
am Maranith, captain of Nagarythe under oath to Malekith, and it was I
he sent to rouse this army ready for his return. I cannot hope to
expunge the stain upon my spirit, but if my labours free others from its
trap, I shall die content.’

‘And I am proud to labour beside you,’ said Carathril, extending a hand.
The knight gripped it firmly in his own gauntleted fist and shook it
firmly.

‘What we have started here will change Ulthuan forever, Carathril,’
Maranith said. ‘Fight with the prince, and history will remember you for
eternity.’

Carathril gave a nod and rode away. Filled with curiosity, he dropped
down the column and pulled his horse to a walk beside the prisoners,
observing them. The girl who had so brazenly offered herself to him now
seemed demure, wrapped in white linen, her blonde hair washed and
plaited, her skin cleansed of its obscene marks. She cast coy glances
occasionally at Carathril, the wildness that had filled her eyes before
now utterly gone. Carathril smiled at her and waved for her to approach.
He dismounted and led his horse as she stepped up beside him.

‘Tell me your name,’ said Carathril.

‘I am Drutheira,’ she replied hesitantly.

‘I am Carathril, from Lothern,’ the herald told her. ‘It is uncommon for
the maidens of Nagarythe to have straw hair such as yours.’

‘I am not from Nagarythe, my lord,’ Drutheira said.

‘There is no need to call me lord; I am no prince, merely a captain of
the guard. You may call me Carathril, or captain, as you please. How
come you to be here, then?’

‘I am from Ellyrion, captain,’ she told him. ‘A while ago, twenty years
or more, my brother and I were running the herd in the foothills of the
mountains. Riders came, clad in black cloaks, and we thought that they
had come for the horses. Galdarin, my brother, tried to fight them, but
he was slain. They left the horses, but took me. They bore me here,
where they had built a temple to Atharti.’

‘Twenty years?’ gasped Carathril. ‘It must have been hideous, enslaved
to such diabolic rites.’

‘At first I was terrified,’ admitted Drutheira. ‘They beat me and
whipped me, until I could no longer feel pain, I no longer cried. I
cared not what happened to me. Then they brought me calmleaf and black
lotus, and we feasted and dined in honour of Atharti. I learned the
skills of the consort, and daily gave myself to the pleasures of
Atharti. When Helreon died, I succeeded her as priestess and learned the
inner mysteries of our goddess.’

Her voice had become strident and defiant, but suddenly she paused.
Without warning, she began to sob.

‘Oh, captain, today is the first day in twenty years I have seen clearly
what I have become,’ she moaned. ‘Other girls I ordered brought to the
shrine, and enslaved them as I was enslaved. What terrible things I have
seen; have witnessed with joy in my heart. I was lost in the bliss of
Atharti, never looking upon those vile acts in the way I see them now.
What have I done?’

Carathril hushed her and laid a comforting hand upon her shoulder. She
did not look up at him, but instead hung her head and continued to cry.
He searched for the words to ease her, but could find none. He was not
gifted with a lyric nature, and part of him still reviled what she had
become. To give herself, body and spirit, so wholly to the forbidden
gods was an idea he found utterly abhorrent. Unable to marry the
loathing he felt with the pitiful sight of her so distraught, he chose
to remain silent.

They walked thus for some time, until her crying ceased. He turned to
see her gazing at him, her face streaked with tears, her eyes shot with
red.

‘What is to become of me?’ she asked.

‘As Prince Malekith promised, you will not be harmed,’ Carathril assured
her. ‘In all likelihood, when you are fully cured of this affliction you
can return to Ellyrion. I am sure your family think you dead, and would
be overjoyed to find you alive and well.’

She said nothing but simply nodded.

‘Tell me of Ellyrion,’ Carathril said, uneasy with the prospect of more
silence between them. He has visited many realms as herald, but wished
to hear how Drutheira remembered her land of birth.

‘It is fairest in the evening, as the sun sinks upon the mountains and
bathes the meadows in gold,’ Drutheira told him. ‘Pastures of grass as
high as your waist, as green as emeralds, stretch out as far as one can
see. White horses run wild through the foothills, calling to our herds
and leading them astray. We listen to their voices on the breeze; hear
them taunting their cousins who are caught beneath bridle and saddle.’

‘Does that not make you sad?’ asked Carathril. ‘Would you not have all
horses run free like their wild cousins?’

She laughed, a startlingly beautiful sound to Carathril’s ears.

‘You are silly, captain,’ Drutheira said. ‘The steeds of Ellyrion are
proud of our friendship, and call their wild cousins stupid and
backwards. They love the jangle of harness and the glitter of silver
tack. You should see them prance and hear them laugh when they ride
forth. They have lush grass to eat and warm stables at night, and call
upon their cousins to join them when the winter rains come.’

Carathril was about to say more when he heard his name called from
ahead.

‘Forgive me, it appears that I am needed,’ he said with a rueful smile.
‘I would like to talk to you again soon.’

‘And I, you,’ Drutheira replied. ‘Perhaps you could tell me of Lothern.’

‘I shall,’ he promised, and swung himself upon his horse. He was about
to flick the reins and ride ahead when a thought struck him. ‘Tell me,
Drutheira of Ellyrion, what does my horse think of me?’

She frowned slightly and then smiled. Laying a hand upon the horse’s
cheek, she leaned close and whispered into his ear. She giggled as the
horse neighed and whinnied.

‘What?’ said Carathril petulantly. ‘What did he say?’

‘He is very happy to bear you,’ Drutheira informed him. ‘You have ridden
far together, and you look after him well.’

‘What is so funny?’

‘He said that for all the riding you have done, you have grown to be a
heavier not lighter burden to bear with each trip. He thinks you have
become a little plump on grain.’

Carathril gave an indignant snort, before laughing himself.

‘The palaces of princes would never live to see a herald of the Phoenix
King go hungry,’ he said. ‘Perhaps I need to learn how to say no.’

With a word, he encouraged his steed forwards, breaking into a swift
trot. Behind him, Drutheira’s smile went unseen; it was a sly
expression, filled with a cunning amusement. She returned to the other
prisoners and they began to whisper amongst themselves.

As Carathril neared the head of the column, Prince Malekith was deep in
conversation with one of the raven heralds. The newcomer was mounted
upon a jet-black steed and upon his shoulders he wore a long cloak made
of dark feathers. He was hooded, revealing only glimpses of his pale,
drawn face. The rider held a long-hafted spear, and he had a compact bow
tied amongst his saddlebags next to a quiver of black-fletched arrows.
The prince of Nagarythe turned to Carathril.

‘May I present Captain Carathril of Lothern, herald of Bel Shanaar,’
said Malekith. ‘This is Elthyrior, one of the raven heralds of
Nagarythe.’

‘I am honoured,’ said Carathril, receiving a silent nod from Elthyrior
as his only reply.

‘Very well,’ said the prince to the raven herald. ‘Call your brethren to
Anir Atruth, and watch for spies and agents of the cults. We shall meet
you there in three days, and then march upon Ealith.’

Malekith commanded his horse into a trot and Carathril did likewise.

‘You have never met one of Elthyrior’s order before?’ asked the prince.
‘Not on all your long travels?’

‘I know little of the heralds of the northlands,’ said Carathril. ‘I
cannot say what is fact and what is myth, but all I hear is sinister.’

Malekith laughed.

‘There is something of a darkness about them, I would agree,’ said
Malekith. ‘Few elves ever meet one of their kind: ever solitary figures
only seen on lonely moors and wild mountain passes, and the stories of
such encounters are whispered around campfires, and in hushed tones in
the wine halls.’

‘Where do they come from?’ asked Carathril.

‘From Nagarythe,’ said the prince. ‘While we laud the exploits of the
greatest heroes of the past, the raven heralds are content to be
forgotten. It was my father who founded their company, when the lands
were beset by hosts of daemons. Formed of pure magic, the daemons of
Chaos could arrive and attack at will, and it was the raven heralds who
watched for their appearance and took swift word to the army of
Aenarion.’

‘And they are loyal to you?’ said Carathril.

‘They are loyal to Nagarythe,’ said Malekith. ‘For the moment I am
content that their cause and ours are the same. Elthyrior brings grave
news from ahead. It seems that we have sparked our foes into action.
Upon word of our crossing into Nagarythe, a great many cultists quit
Anlec and have marched south. They have made their lair in Ealith, south
of Anlec. It is an old fortress, one of the ancient gatekeeps built by
my father to protect the road we now travel. We cannot reach Anlec
without confronting them.’

‘There will be a battle?’ said Carathril.

‘The raven heralds will act as our outriders, and warn of any ambush
ahead,’ Malekith said, ignoring the obvious question. ‘There are none
with eyes as keen as the northern riders, and our enemies will not mark
their passing. Our foe will not surrender Ealith meekly back to my rule.
Send word to the other captains to gather at my tent tonight, for we
must make plans for battle.’

Malekith noticed Carathril frown.

‘It is right that we be troubled,’ the prince said. ‘We should not seek
this confrontation gladly, but we must prosecute our cause willingly.’

‘I am willing,’ Carathril assured him. ‘I would cast out this blackness
with my own life, were that possible.’

‘Be not too hasty to surrender life,’ Malekith warned. ‘It is not
through death but through life that we prevail. I have defended this
isle for more than a thousand years, and I have seen many of my comrades
sell their lives for no gain while those that survive go on to victory
and prosperity. I was raised in Anlec, even as daemons slaughtered and
corrupted all about me. My first memories are of spear, sword and
shield. My first words were war and death. I was anointed with bloodshed
and grew up beneath the Sword of Khaine, and I have no doubt that its
shadow lies upon me still. Perhaps it is true that my father’s line is
cursed, and that war will haunt us for eternity.’

‘I cannot imagine what it was like to live in those times,’ said
Carathril. ‘The fear, the sacrifice, the pain of so many lost. I must
admit, I offer thanks to the gods that it has been so, and ask that I
must never endure what you and others endured.’

‘You are wise to do so,’ said Malekith. ‘One does not seek war for its
own end, for it leaves nothing but ashes and graves. However, always
remember that though civilisation is built upon foundations of peace, it
is only protected through the efforts of war. There are forces and
creatures that would see us crushed, driven from the face of the world
and dragged into an eternity of darkness. These forces cannot be
reasoned with, they cannot conceive of liberty, they exist only to
dominate and destroy.’

‘But the foes we face are not daemons, they are our own people,’ said
Carathril. ‘They breathe, and laugh, and cry as we do.’

‘And that is why we shall show them mercy where possible,’ Malekith
assured him. ‘I have faced grave enemies for my entire life. These last
years I have wandered far and wide and seen many amazing and terrifying
things. In the forests of Elthin Arvan, our companies fought
goblin-fiends that rode upon gigantic spiders and I have battled with
stinking trolls that can heal the most grievous wounds. Monstrous winged
creatures tossed soldiers aside like dolls in the cold wastes of the
north, and savage men caked in the blood of their fellows hurled
themselves upon our spear tips. We wept at some of the horrors that
confronted us, and I have seen seasoned warriors flee in abject terror
from foes not of flesh and blood. But I have also seen such heroism that
the greatest of sagas cannot do them justice. I have seen a bowman leap
upon the back of a bull-headed beast and strike out its eyes with an
arrow in his hand. I have seen a mother gut a dozen orcs with a knife to
protect her children. I have seen spearmen hold a narrow pass for twenty
days against an endless horde of misshapen nightmares. War is bloody and
foul, yet it is also full of courage and sacrifice.’

‘I hope that I have such bravery,’ said Carathril. ‘I do not know if I
would have the strength to master my fear in the face of such sights.’

‘I have no doubt that you do,’ Malekith said. ‘I see the fire that burns
within your heart, the dedication to your duty, and I would have no
hesitation in having you fight by my side, Carathril of Lothern.’

As they rode, the path veered westwards and brought them from the
forest, and by mid-afternoon the head of the column travelled along a
high ridge overlooking the northern domains of Nagarythe. Beneath them
was spread Urithelth Orir, the great wilderness of Nagarythe.

For sixty leagues westwards and twenty leagues to the north stretched a
desolate moorland, broken by stands of withered trees and majestic
outcroppings of black rock. Patches of hardy grasses dotted the dark,
thin soil, and banks of reeds found purchase along thin rivulets that
cut through the hard earth.

To the east the mountains of the Annulii rose abruptly from the bleak
flatness, towering in steep cliffs above the lowlands and rising ever
higher and higher to the north, the most distant peaks tipped with a
permanent white cap. Clouds were gathered about the mountain peaks, but
above Urithelth Orir the skies were blue and clear, and the air bit with
autumn chill.

The road broke northwards again, as straight as any arrow across the
plains, rising and falling gently, crossing the many streams by wide
bridges. As sunfall approached, the column halted and made camp. The
light of dozens of campfires soon blazed as night swiftly approached,
and streamers of smoke obscured the starry skies. Malekith’s pavilion
was erected at the centre of the camp, within a ring of tents housing
his knights. Silver lanterns were brought out and hung on poles,
throwing pools of deep yellow upon the bleak ground.

Here and there, the sound of a lute or harp broke the gloom, but their
sound was mournful not cheering. Low voices sang old laments, bringing
to mind the woes of the past, preparing the warriors for the sorrows
that lay ahead.
