
TWO 

Voyage to Elthin Arvan

With determination and resourcefulness, Malekith bent his mind to the
rebuilding of Nagarythe, as the other princes looked to their realms. In
this time, Ulthuan raised itself from the ashes of war, and the cities
grew and prospered. Farmlands pushed back the wilderness of Ulthuan as
the elves shaped their isle to their liking.

In the mountains, hunters found strange beasts twisted by dark magic:
many-headed hydras, bizarre chimera, screeching griffons and other
creatures of Chaos. Many of these they slew, others they captured and
broke to their will to use as mounts. Here also change had been wrought
upon the birds, and the elves became friends with the great eagles who
soared upon the mountain thermals and were gifted with the power of
speech.

Ships were built and fleets despatched to explore the lands beyond the
seas, and the power of the elves grew. Tiranoc, the kingdom of Bel
Shanaar, profited greatly from this expansion of the elven realms, as
did other kingdoms whose people took ship to found new colonies on
distant shores.

Seeing that the future of his lands lay not just upon Ulthuan but across
the globe, Malekith decided to lead the Naggarothi forth on an
expedition of conquest and exploration. Though he had laboured long in
the reconstruction of Nagarythe, ever he had chafed at domesticity and
would seek the adventure of the mountain hunts or train with the legions
of Anlec.

Not for him the life of security and comfort enjoyed by the princes of
Ulthuan, for his spirit burned brighter than theirs, and ever the words
of his mother and father sprang to mind. He felt destined for greater
things than the building of walls and the collection of taxes, and he
appointed many chancellors and treasurers to oversee these duties for
him.

In the two hundred and fifty-fifth year of Bel Shanaar’s reign, Malekith
quit Nagarythe as part of a mighty fleet bound for the east, to the
unconquered wilderness of Elthin Arvan. To Morathi he gave the
stewardship of Nagarythe. Though the relationship between mother and son
had been strained at times, for Morathi could not accept her son’s fate
as placidly as did he, the two remained close.

Beneath a spring sky the two parted on the wharfs of Galthyr, Morathi
wrapped against the chill with a shawl of black bear fur, Malekith in
his golden armour. Behind the prince his flagship rose and fell at
anchor, her white sails cracking in the breeze, the high tiers of her
gilded hull shining in the morning sun. Further out to sea waited a
dozen warships of Nagarythe, their black and gold hulls rising and
falling upon the white surf, five hundred warriors and knights aboard
each vessel; a bodyguard befitting the son of Aenarion.

‘You will earn glory on your travels,’ Morathi said with genuine
affection. ‘I have seen it in my dreams, and I know it in my heart. You
will be a hero and a conqueror, and you will return to Ulthuan to be
showered with praise.’

‘I have nothing to prove,’ Malekith answered.

‘You do not,’ Morathi agreed. ‘Not to yourself, nor I, not to your loyal
subjects. You will make a fine Phoenix King when you return and the
other princes see your true worth.’

‘Even if they do not, Bel Shanaar is not immortal,’ Malekith said. ‘I
shall outlive him, and there will come a time when the princes must
again choose a successor. Then the crown of Ulthuan will return to its
rightful line and I shall do honour to the memory of my father.’

‘It is good that you leave, for I could not bear to see you wither away
in our halls like a rose hidden from the sun,’ Morathi said. ‘One day
your name will be upon the lips of every elf, and you will usher in a
new age for our people. This is written in the stars and thus in your
destiny. Morai-heg has granted me the wisdom to see it thus, and so
shall it be.’

The seeress looked away for a moment, her gaze turning towards the
north. Malekith opened his mouth to speak but Morathi raised a finger to
silence him. When she looked at her son, he felt her gaze fall upon him
like a lamb stood before a lion, such was the intensity of her stare.

‘Great deeds await you, my son, and renown equal to that of your
father,’ Morathi said, quietly at first, her voice rising in volume as
she spoke. ‘Let Bel Shanaar sit upon his throne and grow rich and spoilt
upon the labours of his people! As you say, his time will pass and his
line will be found weak. Care not for the judgement of others, but go
forth and do as you see fit, as prince of Nagarythe and leader of the
greatest people in the world!’

They embraced for a long while, sharing in silence what could not be
said. There were no tears shed at this parting, for the elves of
Nagarythe were ever hardened to adversity and loss. For both, this was
simply a new chapter in the story of Nagarythe, to be boldly written
upon the pages of history with feats of valour and tales of conquest.

Swift and sure are the ships of the elves, and the fleet of Malekith
sailed north and east for forty days, crossing the Great Ocean without
trouble. The elves were masters of the seas, the inheritors of the
civilisation of the Old Ones that had now fallen, and the world was
theirs to claim. Anticipation and excitement filled the sailors and
warriors of Nagarythe as they gazed to the east and wondered what
spectacles awaited them.

Malekith was filled with energy, and would pace upon the deck of his
ship constantly, when not cloistered in his cabin poring over the charts
and maps sent back by elven shipmasters who had begun to explore the
wide seas and foreign coasts.

He travelled also from ship to ship when he could, to spend time with
the other princes and knights who accompanied his expedition. They
feasted on fish caught from the seas, and drank toasts to their prince
from caskets of wine brought out of Ulthuan. The mood was of a great
celebration, as if setting out was in itself a victory. Malekith could
not fault them for their optimism, for as they woke each day heading
towards the dawn he felt the lure of adventure too. Other ships they saw
passing westwards, laden with timber and ores from the new lands. Ever
they exchanged news with the captains of these vessels, and each meeting
brought fresh excitement at the wealth and opportunities to be had.

The lands of the east were untamed wilderness for the most part. Savage
creatures were there, amidst the majestic mountains and dark forests,
but also vast untapped resources that could be taken for those with the
wit and daring to do so.

Malekith vowed to his followers that they would build a new realm here,
and carve for themselves an empire that would dwarf Ulthuan in size and
majesty, worthy of the memory of Aenarion. This cheered them even more,
for each prince could see himself as a king, and each knight could
picture life as a prince. Under Malekith’s reign, it seemed as if
anything would be possible, and each would have a castle filled with
delights set in breath-taking glades and valleys.

Malekith allowed them to forge their fantasies, for who was he to quell
their dreams? He had spoken in truth and looked to the wilds of Elthin
Arvan as a new beginning; a place where the ghost of his father would
not haunt him and the expectations of his mother would not choke him.

As dawn broke on the forty-first day, a commotion ran through Malekith’s
fleet. Land had been sighted: jutting headlands of white and dark mud
flats that stretched for miles. It was not for this that there was much
agitation, for the masters of the ships had known they would make
landfall that day, but for a great pall of smoke that hung over the
northern horizon. A large fire or fires burned somewhere, and Malekith
was filled with foreboding. He ordered his captains to turn northwards
at once, and up the coast sped the fleet with all sail set, dancing
effortlessly across the waves.

Not long after noon they came upon the port of Athel Toralien, one of
the first colonies to be founded in these new lands. Her white towers
rose up majestically from the sea of trees that grew right up to the
coastline, and a great harbour wall curved out into the ocean, surf
crashing upon it. As Malekith feared, the city was alight with many
fires, and her walls were blackened with soot.

As the Naggarothi fleet tacked into the bay upon which Athel Toralien
stood, they found the quays empty of ships. Malekith guessed that their
captains had fled whatever disaster had befallen the city, and that
Athel Toralien now lay deserted. He was to be proven wrong in part
though, for as the ships approached the harbour, a loud cry went up from
the lookouts. There was fighting upon the walls of the city!

As the ship of Malekith came alongside a slender pier, he leapt over the
side onto the whitewashed planks. In his wake came his soldiers, jumping
from the ship in their haste, not waiting for the boarding bridges to be
lowered. Calling his warriors to arms, Malekith raced down the pier
towards the high warehouses around the edge of the harbour. As he neared
the buildings, clusters of elves came out and hurried towards the
Naggarothi. Most were women, unkempt and afraid. With them they brought
clusters of children with eyes wide in fear, who hung upon their
mother’s dresses as if they were gripping upon life itself.

‘Bless Asuryan!’ the womenfolk cried, and hugged Malekith and his
warriors with tears streaming down their cheeks.

‘Be quiet!’ snapped Malekith to quell their effusive thanks and sobbing.
‘What evil passes here?’

‘Orcs!’ they shrieked in reply. ‘The city is besieged!’

‘Who commands the city?’ he demanded.

‘No one, my lord,’ he was told. ‘Prince Aneron left eight days ago, with
the fleet and many of the soldiers. There was not enough room aboard the
ships for all to flee. Captain Lorhir defends the walls as best he can,
but the orcs have war engines that hurl flaming rocks, and have pounded
the city for many days.’

The army was assembling on the dockside, and Malekith ordered that the
horses be brought from the ships. As the knights readied themselves, he
ordered two companies of spears and his best archers to follow him to
the walls. As they marched through the city they saw that the
destruction was not as widespread as they first thought. The war
machines of the orcs were wildly inaccurate and the damaged buildings
were scattered across the city. Even as Malekith reached a stairway
leading up to the rampart, a ball of flaming rock and tar flew overhead
and crashed into a tower, showering dribbles of flame and debris into
the street below.

Leaping up the stone steps three at a time, Malekith swiftly reached the
top of the wall, which rose some thirty feet above the ground. The
curtain wall of Athel Toralien curved around in a semi-circle for more
than a mile, enclosing the city against the bay that lay to the south.
Beyond lay an immense forest that stretched as far as the eye could see,
cut by the straight lines of roads radiating out from the city’s three
gates.

There were piles of bodies everywhere; of slain elves, and gruesome
green-skinned creatures with fanged mouths and slab-like muscles, clad
in crude armour. The current attack appeared to be at a gate tower some
two hundred yards further along the wall. A motley assortment of elves,
some wearing armour, others in robes, beat back with spears and knives
against a swarm of the wildly shouting orcs.

More orcs were pouring up from four ramshackle ladders leaning against
the wall.

‘Form up for advance!’ bellowed Malekith, unsheathing his sword,
Avanuir.

The spear companies fell into disciplined ranks six abreast, their
shields overlapping, a wall of iron points jutting forwards. Malekith
waved them to advance and they set off at a steady pace, their booted
feet tramping in unison upon the hard stone.

‘Clear those ladders,’ the prince told his archers before running to the
front of the advancing column.

The archers moved to the wall’s edge, some standing upon the
battlements, and loosed their bows at the savages climbing up the
ladders. Their aim was deadly accurate and dozens of the greenskins
tumbled to the ground below, black-fletched arrows piercing eyes, necks
and chests.

The orcs had gained a foothold upon the wall and more of their number
clambered over the rampart, howling and waving brutal cleavers and axes.
The Naggarothi advanced relentlessly, as groups of orcs broke from the
main body and ran towards them.

When the first orc reached the black-armoured company Malekith
despatched it with a simple overhead cut that left its body cleft from
shoulder to groin. The next he slew with a straight thrust through the
chest, and another with a backhanded flourish that spilled its entrails
onto the stones of the wall.

Malekith continued marching forwards, hewing down an orc with every
step, his spearmen tight behind him slaying any orc that evaded the
prince’s deadly attentions. The Naggarothi stepped over the bodies of
the fallen savages as they advanced, never once wavering or changing
direction as they headed for the knot of greenskins crowding about the
ladders. The elves of Athel Toralien took heart with the arrival of
their saviours and fought with greater vigour, stopping the orcs from
gaining further ground as the Naggarothi closed in.

Wielded by Malekith, Avanuir sheared through shield, armour, flesh and
bone with every strike of the prince, and a line of orc bodies trailed
him along the wall until he reached the ladders. No clumsy blow from his
foes found its mark as he feinted and swayed through the melee.

Signalling his spears to deal with the other ladders, Malekith leapt up
to the battlement by the closest, kicking an orc face as it appeared
over the wall. The orc reeled from the blow but did not fall. Avanuir
swept down and lopped the orc’s head from its body, the lifeless corpse
tumbling down the ladder, dislodging more orcs so that they fell
flailing to the ground.

As he hewed through another attacker, Malekith held up his left hand and
a nimbus of power coalesced around his closed fist. With a snarled word
of power, Malekith thrust his hand towards the orcs and unleashed his
spell. Forks of blue and purple lightning leapt from his outstretched
fingertips, earthing through the skulls of the orcs, causing flesh to
catch fire and armour to melt. Down the ladder writhed the bolt, jumping
from orc to orc, hurling each to the ground trailing smoke. With a
thunderous blast, the ladder itself exploded into a hail of splinters
that scythed into the orcs waiting at the foot of the wall, cutting them
down by the score.

The spearmen had toppled two more ladders, and as Malekith turned from
the wall, the fourth and final ladder collapsed, sending the orcs upon
it plunging to a bone-cracking death on the hard earth below. The
archers turned their shots now onto the orcs who had gathered around the
fallen ladders, shooting any that tried to raise up the siege ladders,
until the orcs lost heart and began to retreat.

An elf in bloodstained mail emerged from the knot of weary defenders,
his helm scored with many blows, and walked slowly towards the
Naggarothi company. He pulled off his tall helmet with a grimace, to
reveal blood-matted blond hair, and dropped the helm wearily to the
stones.

As he approached, Malekith stooped and tore a rag from one of the orcish
dead to clean the gore from the blade of Avanuir. The prince raised an
inquiring eye to the approaching elf.

‘Captain Lorhir?’ asked Malekith, sheathing his blade.

The other nodded and extended a hand in greeting. Malekith ignored the
gesture and the elf withdrew his hand. Uncertainty played across
Lorhir’s face for a moment before he recovered his composure.

‘Thank you, highness,’ Lorhir panted. ‘Praise to Asuryan for guiding you
to our walls this day, for I feared this morning we had seen our last
sunrise.’

‘You may have yet,’ replied Malekith. ‘I have space upon my ships only
for my own troops; there is no room for evacuation. I do not think there
is escape by land.’

Malekith pointed out over the wall, to where a sea of orcs seethed along
the road and beneath the boughs of the trees. Half a dozen huge
catapults stood in clearings slashed raggedly from the forest, mighty
pyres burning next to them. Scores of trees swayed and crashed down in
every direction as the orcs cut timber to build new ladders and more war
engines.

‘With your aid we can hold the city until the prince returns,’ said
Lorhir.

‘I do not think the prince will be returning soon,’ Malekith said. As he
spoke, others of the Toralien defenders gathered about to hear his
words. ‘Why should I and my soldiers shed our blood for this city?’

‘With all the favour of the gods, we few could not hold against this
horde for another day,’ Lorhir said. ‘You must protect us!’

‘Must?’ said Malekith, his voice an angry hiss. ‘In Nagarythe, a captain
does not tell a prince what he must do.’

‘Forgive me, highness,’ pleaded Lorhir. ‘We are desperate, and there is
no one else. We sent messengers to Tor Alessi and Athel Maraya and other
cities, but they have not returned. They have been waylaid, or else our
calls for aid have fallen upon uncaring ears. I cannot hold the city
alone!’

‘I cannot throw away the lives of my warriors defending the lands of a
prince who would not defend them himself,’ Malekith said sharply.

‘Are we not all elves here?’ asked one of the other citizens, an ageing
elf who held a sword with an edge chipped and dinted by much use and
little care. ‘You would leave us to the tortures and brutalities of
these orcs?’

‘If this city were mine, I would defend it to my last breath,’ Malekith
said, appearing to relent. Then his face hardened. ‘But Athel Toralien
is not my city. We came to the new world to build a new kingdom, not to
spill our blood to protect one of a prince who flees for safety at the
first hint of menace. Swear loyalty to me, place yourself under the
protection of Nagarythe, and I will defend this city.’

‘What of our oaths to Prince Aneron?’ replied Lorhir. ‘I would not be
known as a traitor.’

‘It is Aneron of Eataine who has broken his word,’ Malekith told them.
‘Yes, I know him. He stands upon the labours of his father and abandons
his people. He is worthy of no oath of fealty. Stand by me, join the
Naggarothi, and I will save your city and from here we will conquer this
wild and plentiful land.’

The elves huddled together in forlorn conference, occasionally looking
out over the walls at the green-skinned army beyond, and at Malekith’s
stern demeanour.

‘Take us with you on your ships, and we will swear our loyalty to
Anlec,’ Lorhir said finally. ‘What can we few hundred do against that
tide of hated beasts?’

‘Your eyes must be weary,’ said Malekith, waving a hand towards the
docks. ‘Look again.’

The elves gaped in awe as they watched the Naggarothi host disembarking
from the warships. In long columns of black and silver they snaked down
the piers, banners fluttering above them. At their head came the
knights, already mounted upon their black-flanked destriers. Rank upon
rank of spears formed up on the dockyard, moving with poise and
precision born of a lifetime of training and fighting.

‘A thousand knights, four thousand spears and a thousand bows stand at
my command,’ Malekith declared.

‘The enemy is too great for us to hold the city, even with such
numbers,’ argued Lorhir. ‘Prince Aneron had ten thousand spears and he
could not hold the walls.’

‘His warriors are not Naggarothi,’ Malekith said. ‘Each soldier in my
host is worth five of Eataine. They are led by me. I am the son of
Aenarion, and where my blade falls, death follows. Simply swear oaths of
fealty to me and I will save your city. I am the prince of Nagarythe,
and where I march, the undying will of my kingdom follows. If I so
command it, this city will not fall!’

Such was the bearing and greatness of Malekith at that moment that
Lorhir and the others fell to their knees, uttering words of loyalty and
dedication.

‘So be it,’ said Malekith. ‘The orcs will be dead by nightfall.’
