
one 

A Cruel Slight

In the two hundred and fifty-fifth year of the reign of Phoenix King Bel
Shanaar, the citizens of Athel Toralien became elves of Nagarythe.
Abandoned by their princes and left to the depredations of an orc siege,
the city and its people were delivered from death by Prince Malekith and
the grateful populace swore fresh oaths of loyalty to their Naggarothi
saviour.

Under the command of Prince Malekith, Athel Toralien grew; in size, in
population, in riches, in esteem and in power. From the western coast of
Elthin Arvan, the armies of the Naggarothi marched eastwards and behind
their shields and spears the elves of the city built towns and farms,
laid roads and bridges, raised up castles and citadels; taming the
wilderness of the colonies and fashioning the land into a likeness of
their ancestral homes back on the isle of Ulthuan.

For more than thirteen hundred years, Athel Toralien prospered under the
guidance of Malekith. When the prince declared that he was to leave the
colonies and seek his destiny in the harsh wastes of the North there
were many that feared for the future fortunes of the city.

In the docks and wine houses, forest mansions and farms, there was much
speculation; elves are naturally disposed to rumour and politics and
such a momentous event was a topic even the most introverted spirit felt
required comment. In a high tower upon the wall above the harbour, the
gossip was no less animated, though there was one amongst the small
group of elven maidens who was full of confidence.

‘My father is every part the city ruler,’ declared Hellebron.

Her maid, Liannin, murmured assent as she brushed her mistress’s long
hair. Hellebron’s father, Alandrian, had been newly named a Prince of
Nagarythe and she was enjoying the sudden but deserved elevation in
status. ‘Princess Hellebron’ had a fine sound to it.

‘He has run Athel Toralien in all but name for fifty years, while
Malekith has busied himself with his battles and adventures,’ the young
princess continued. She straightened the gold chain around her pale
throat, centring its large ruby pendant. The sunlight cast a glow from
the gem, dappling Hellebron’s slight face with scarlet. ‘You will see
that this can only be a change for the better.’

‘For you, perhaps,’ said Ariendil, a dark-haired elf maiden ten years
Hellebron’s senior. Hellebron’s two other friends, Mithalindin and
Druithana, kept their expressions neutral, though their eyes flicked
between Ariendil and Hellebron, watching carefully. ‘No doubt the sun of
your house continues to rise. I hope that you do not leave the rest of
us in darkness.’

Hellebron giggled. ‘How poetic!’

The princess stood up and shooed away her maid, smoothing the creases in
her silk dress. ‘I am sure my father’s patronage for your families will
continue. You are still my friends, after all. Perhaps we can all be
princesses in the future.’

As Liannin was leaving, the door to the chamber flew open, crashing
against the white wall. The maid stumbled back as Lirieth strode into
the room. Though twenty years younger, Hellebron’s sister was so like
her that the pair might have been mistaken for twins. Her dark gaze
roved around the room, taking in each of the elves in turn before
settling on Hellebron.

‘Ah, sister, there you are!’ Lirieth’s voice was mellow, even in her
excitement. ‘Do you never spare a glance out of the window?’

‘What is it?’ asked Druithana.

‘Have a look,’ said Lirieth.

Hellebron said nothing. She pushed Ariendil gently aside and stepped up
to the high window overlooking the harbour.

It was a sunny spring day and the calm waters of the bay glittered in
the afternoon light. Dozens of ships bobbed at anchor in the middle of
the port. A line of black sails approached the harbour wall. There were
ten ships, nine unremarkable but for the fact that they flew
silver-and-black pennants of Nagarythe at their mastheads. The tenth was
the cause of so much interest.

It glided across the waves without effort, four huge lateen sails filled
with the breeze, surf crashing around the gold-plated ram at its prow.
Hellebron had seen many great ships pass in and out of Athel Toralien,
but none matched the majesty of this vessel. In size it was as large as
a castle keep, spread over three hulls – one central structure flanked
by two outrigger hulls that were each the size of a warship. Upon its
deck stood high towers of dark-stained wood banded and trimmed with
shining gold. Hellebron caught her breath and knew at once that such a
ship must bear the most noble of passengers. She wondered if the Phoenix
King had returned, but it seemed unlikely that such an event would go
without announcements and preparation.

Like the most graceful maiden at a dance, the ship glided through the
rest of the fleet before trimly tacking across the wind towards the
longest pier. The sound of clarions rang out across the waves from the
other nine ships, heralding the arrival of their leader.

‘Who are they?’ Ariendil asked, peering over Hellebron’s shoulder.

‘They bear flags of Nagarythe,’ said Druithana, standing on tiptoe to
see past the much taller princess.

‘We will not find out by staying here,’ said Hellebron. She spun away
from the window, forcing her companions to step back, and turned to her
maid. ‘Go and fetch our cloaks and outdoor shoes.’

‘Yes, mistress.’ Liannin hesitated, an unspoken hope lingering on
half-parted lips.

‘Yes, you can come with us,’ said Hellebron. ‘You would only pester me
with questions if you did not.’

‘Thank you, mistress.’ Liannin smiled, bobbed a curtsey and hurried out
of the room.

‘We’ll have to be quick,’ said Ariendil, back at the window. ‘It looks
like every person in the city is coming out for a look.’

Refraining from unseemly haste, Hellebron readied herself for when
Liannin returned, sweeping a crimson cloak about her shoulders and
fastening it with a silver clasp in the shape of a dragon’s head. She
pulled on black calfskin boots, picking off a few stray threads clinging
to the brushed hide. Liannin proffered a mirror and helped Hellebron pin
up her hair so that it fell in a cascade down her right side.

‘Let us see what this fuss is about,’ Hellebron announced when she was
presentable. She looked at the others, who were watching her
expectantly. ‘Come on, no time for dithering.’

Liannin did her best to forge a path through the thickening crowds, but
further progress became impossible a few streets from the docks.
Hellebron and Lirieth gave a commentary on what was happening, the
sisters a head taller than their friends and able to see further over
the sea of elves.

‘The large ship is just coming alongside the quay now,’ said Hellebron.

‘Look!’ The pitch of Lirieth’s voice rose sharply as she levered herself
onto tiptoe, one hand on Hellebron’s shoulder. ‘It’s Prince Malekith!’

Hellebron saw him too; dressed in a fine robe of black, his purple cloak
trailing, scabbard slapping his leg as he strode purposefully towards
the wharf. Soon he was also having difficulty with the press of elves.

‘Is your father there?’ asked Liannin.

Hellebron scanned the crowd but caught no sight of Alandrian.

‘Yeasir is with the prince; no sign of father,’ said Lirieth.

At that moment, a ball of blue fire screamed into the air, rising above
the crowds.

‘What was that?’ asked Druithana.

‘Prince Malekith sent up a bolt from Avanuir to clear a path,’ laughed
Hellebron. ‘You should see them all scurrying out of the way, it’s
delicious!’

There was nothing more to report, though Hellebron and Lirieth kept
their friends occupied with observations on the appearance and fashions
of several other noble ladies, most of it uncomplimentary.

Hellebron was distracted from her dissection of the jewellery of an elf
called Larissia by the arrival of the ship at the quayside. ‘They are
lowering a ramp now,’ she told the rest. A guard captain with a
particularly tall crest on his helm moved across her view. Hellebron
hissed in irritation and glared at Lirieth. ‘What is happening? I cannot
see!’

‘There is someone coming off the ship, but I cannot see her clearly. She
is embracing the prince. Oh, by the gods!’

Lirieth followed this exclamation by covering her mouth in surprise,
eyes wide. The group shrieked over each other, demanding to know what
was going on. The guard captain moved slightly. Hellebron could see
Prince Malekith and his companion moving back from the quay. The elf
with him was tall, with white skin and raven-black hair. Even at this
distance, she radiated beauty and power, and the way she walked with
Malekith could only mean one thing.

‘It’s Morathi!’ Hellebron nearly squealed the queen’s name in her
excitement. ‘By all the gods, Morathi has come to Athel Toralien!’

Hellebron was engulfed by a barrage of questions from her friends; they
wanted to know what she looked like, what she was wearing, was she
­carrying her famous staff? Hellebron ignored them and gazed longingly
at Malekith’s mother, feeling the grace and poise that flowed from every
movement. More than that, Hellebron could feel her excitement merging
with the rest of the crowd. The adoration for the wife of Aenarion, the
first Phoenix King, was palpable.

Hellebron’s heart stirred with conflicted feelings. She experienced the
elation of the others, and at the same time she became keenly aware of a
sudden jealousy. It was not directed at Morathi in person, but was envy
for the reaction the queen elicited. Her mere arrival, as grand and
elegant as it had been, had brought the city to a halt. Hellebron
wondered what it would be like to hold such attention, to have such
power and authority.

‘I have to meet her,’ Hellebron said to Lirieth. ‘Can you imagine it? We
have to speak with father! He will be able to arrange it.’

‘Imagine what, dearest sister?’ said Lirieth.

‘Imagine anything, of course,’ said Hellebron, shaking her head at her
sister’s ignorance. ‘We could travel to Anlec; be proper princesses in
the court of Morathi. Athel Toralien is nice enough, but it is not
Anlec. The latest fashions, brave princes to court us, poets writing
verses about our beauty. Oh, sister, it will be wonderful!’

The white-and-black tiles of the hallway echoed with the tap of
Hellebron’s boot as she waited for the call to enter Morathi’s chambers.
The princess clasped her hands tightly, to prevent nervous fidgeting.
She wished there was a mirror in the hallway, so that she could see her
hair and the hang of her dress one last time. Liannin had gone, and
there was nobody else around to check. Convinced that the complex braids
and small spearwall of pins holding her hair in place had come apart
without her noticing, she stared at her faint reflection in the window
at the end of the hall.

A gentle cough attracted her attention. Hellebron spun back towards the
door to see a shaven-headed attendant looking at her in amusement. The
handmaiden had a tattoo of a blood drop on each pale cheek, and her dark
dress was embroidered with silver runes, many of which Hellebron did not
recognise.

‘Queen Morathi is happy to see you now.’

Still sure that her hair resembled an unseemly bird’s nest, Hellebron
lifted her chin and smiled. With purposeful steps, she entered Morathi’s
chamber. The attendant closed the door behind her, and suddenly
Hellebron realised that she was alone with the queen.

Morathi reclined on a low couch beneath an open window, the breeze
causing the locks of her hair to dance like black flames. Beyond
stretched the city, and past the wall the fields and forests of Elthin
Arvan. Hellebron had eyes only for Morathi, who wore a shimmering gown
of gold and purple, her lips blood-red, her skin white as snow.

For all the queen’s relaxed pose, Hellebron was instantly intimidated by
her presence. Morathi’s eyes were fixed upon Hellebron, sizing her up as
a mountain lion might regard its next potential meal. Hellebron’s feel
for magic, an unconscious sense that all elves possessed, detected
amazing power. The elf maiden’s skin prickled at the sensation even as
she felt a slight sickness in her gut.

Hellebron dismissed the brief nausea as nerves. She swallowed hard and
realised that she had been blankly staring at Morathi for several
heartbeats. The queen’s expression was expectant and Hellebron realised
she was meant to say something.

She stooped into a curtsey, sweeping her long dress backwards, dipping
her eyes from Morathi’s.

‘I am more honoured than I could possibly say, your majesty,’ Hellebron
said as she straightened, eyes still downcast. Even as the words passed
her lips, Hellebron recoiled from them, realising she was gushing. She
took a steadying breath and forced herself to meet the queen’s unmoving
gaze. ‘Thank you for seeing me.’

Morathi’s reply was to wave a hand heavy with silver rings towards a
straight-backed chair at the foot of the couch. Hellebron sat stiffly,
hands in her lap, while Morathi regarded her with half-closed eyes,
looking like a contented cat.

The queen said nothing and Hellebron wondered if she was meant to say
more. She realised Morathi was toying with her, enjoying her discomfort.
Hellebron stopped a frown just before it creased her forehead and forced
a smile instead.

‘I hope that you have found our little city to your liking, your
majesty,’ she said.

Morathi nodded and swung her legs off the couch to sit straighter, one
arm trailing languidly along the seat’s back.

‘Athel Toralien is a fine city, and its people have been a delight.’
Morathi leaned towards Hellebron. She stroked her chin with a slender
finger while her dark eyes fixed upon the princess from under thick
lashes. ‘What is it that you wish from me, child?’

Hellebron was about to ask what the queen meant by the question, but
Morathi’s hand snapped up, silencing her.

‘Do not feign innocence or ignorance, girl. While there are those that
simply luxuriate in my presence, I see that you want something. Tell me
what it is, and spare me any flattery.’

Hellebron met the queen’s bluntness with her own.

‘I wish to enjoy your favour; to travel back to Anlec with you and be a
part of your circle.’

Morathi’s laughter was barbed, cutting at Hellebron’s hopes.

‘You? You wish me to associate myself with you?’ said the queen. ‘Many
desire such a thing, but few are chosen. What would you offer me by way
of return for this favour?’

‘My father is th–’

‘Your father serves my son. I do not need you to ensure his obedience.’
Morathi sat back and her expression softened. ‘Tell me, child, what
skills do you possess? What do you know of magic?’

‘Very little, your majesty,’ Hellebron replied. ‘Perhaps under your
tutelage I coul–’

‘No, you could not. Any talent above the ordinary that you might possess
would be clear for all to see by now.’

‘There are few spellweavers in the colonies, your majesty,’ said
Hellebron, trying to keep calm, her protest muted. ‘There is little
opportunity for mystical study here.’

‘Yet if magic were your calling, you would have found a way. I have no
time for those who allow their ambitions to be so easily thwarted.
Perhaps you sing well?’

‘Only tolerably so, your majesty.’

‘A gift for poetry?’

‘No more than children’s rhymes, I must admit.’

‘At least tell me that you can dance.’

Hellebron sighed.

‘I fear such dances as we have here are old-fashioned by the standards
of Ulthuan. I have friends who are more graceful.’

Morathi pouted with disappointment, a delicate frown knitting her brow.

‘Your honesty is rare, child.’

‘I would rather be honest now, than caught as a liar later, your
majesty. Any false claim I might make would easily be proven so, given
time. I have nothing more or less to offer than my dedication.’

Morathi gently shook her head.

‘Then you have nothing to offer at all. All of Nagarythe is dedicated to
me, and sycophantic captains and nobles are in easy supply. What need do
I have for another fawning hanger-on?’

‘None, your majesty.’

Hellebron held back tears, determined that the queen would not see any
weakness in her.

‘A noble attempt, child,’ said the queen. ‘But your lips quiver and I
see in your eyes that you are already broken with shame. Do not think
that pity will sway me either. You are weak and spoiled, like so many of
your generation. I am disappointed your father has not raised you
better; I expected more from Alandrian’s daughter. Perhaps your mother
is to blame.’

The dam broke and Hellebron broke into sobs, burying her face in her
hands. She felt Morathi stand. The queen laid an arm across Hellebron’s
heaving shoulders and whispered in her ear.

‘Remember this shame, my pretty child,’ said the queen. ‘Remember this
moment of frailty, and realise that the future of Nagarythe is in the
hands of those far stronger than you. Come to me again when you have
something to give to our people.’

Hellebron felt a tight grip on her arm and wiped a hand across her face
as Morathi pulled her up.

‘I am sorry,’ Hellebron said.

‘Sorry for me, or sorry for yourself, child?’

Turning imploringly to the queen, Hellebron saw there was no sympathy in
those dark eyes, as black and hard as granite. The queen guided her to
the door and almost shoved Hellebron back into the hallway, where the
bald attendant looked at the dishevelled princess with a sly smile.

‘Morai-heg is cruel, and she has laid upon you an unremarkable destiny,
Hellebron,’ Morathi said. ‘Tomorrow I will not even remember your name.’

The handmaiden entered and the door shut, the sound of its closing like
an axeblade to Hellebron’s dreams.

As soon as she was alone, the princess straightened, wiped the tears
from her cheeks and darted a dagger-stare back towards the door. She
cursed herself for resorting to tears – tears that had worked for so
many years on her father and mother – and cursed again for not trying
harder to impress the queen.

It did not matter. Hellebron knew the queen would see through whatever
guile she could muster. Morathi had been wrong though; Hellebron was not
weak. There were those who thought she was fey and feckless, but it was
just an act. It was far easier to get others to do things for you if
they thought you could not do them yourself. Morathi was immune, it
seemed.

Her pride smarting from the encounter, Hellebron strode along the hall,
determined that she would prove Morathi wrong. She was a princess and
she deserved better. Though she did not know how, Hellebron would make
Morathi see how foolish she had been to discard her with such contempt.
She could not learn magic, and no amount of tutoring would make her a
fine dancer or singer, but somehow Hellebron would find a way to gain
that which she believed should be hers. She would go to Anlec as a
rightful princess of Nagarythe.

Yes, Hellebron thought, one day Morathi will remember my name, and she
will see me for what I am.
