
TWENTY-THREE


The Night of Dark Knives

Morathi’s displeasure was not usually a survivable experience, but
Alandrian held his nerve as he strode up the steps of Anlec’s palace. It
was true that he had not captured or killed the enigmatic Shadow King,
but he had come much closer than anyone else in the last six years. He
was not foolish enough to believe that Morathi would simply forgive him
his failure, but Alandrian had already devised a new plan to ensnare the
elusive renegade; a plan that would not only bring success but also be
an act of contrition on his part. He had even taken the bold step of
requesting an audience rather than awaiting the queen’s summons.

Upon entering the throne chamber, Alandrian was taken aback by the smile
that Morathi wore. She sat upon a chair beside the great throne of
Aenarion, swathed in a voluminous robe of white fur and black silk, her
bared arms and legs pale in the lamplight. Her whole demeanour was
welcoming, its openness more disconcerting than a scowl.

Alandrian suppressed a shudder as he felt dark magic crawling across his
skin and fancied he saw flittering shapes in the shadows at the edge of
vision. Half-heard voices whispered and twittered around him, and he
struggled to ignore their taunts and promises, focussing on the
sorceress-queen.

‘Majesty,’ said Alandrian, bowing long and low. ‘I offer my deepest
apologies for the lack of success in apprehending the deviant who has so
vexed your thoughts of late.’

‘Stand up,’ said Morathi, her voice neither cruel nor kind. She
continued in the same matter-of-fact tone. ‘We could waste a great deal
of time, with me reminding you of your failings, and you offering
apologies and excuses. Let us assume that such a conversation took place
in the manner we both anticipated.’

Alandrian felt a flutter of fear. Was he to be presented no opportunity
to argue his case? Perhaps he had overestimated his position and
influence.

‘With that in mind, I am sure your arguments would conclude with an
offer to make amends,’ Morathi continued, her voice softening.

She stood and beckoned to a group of shadowy figures who had been
lurking in the darker recesses of the hall. Three sorcerers – two
female, one male – came out of the gloom, clad in robes of dark purple,
their skin dyed with archaic symbols that set Alandrian’s teeth on edge.
He had never been comfortable with sorcery; it seemed a dangerous weapon
to wield.

‘These are three of my most promising protégés, Alandrian,’ Morathi
said, gliding effortlessly across the hall towards the prince, her
sorcerers falling in behind her. Alandrian swallowed hard, eyes flicking
from Morathi’s alluring eyes to the harsh stares from her disciples.

The sorceress-queen stopped in front of Alandrian and placed a finger to
his lips as he was about to speak. Alandrian felt a thrill of energy
surge through him from her touch, stirring his heart, awakening urges he
had not felt since the sacrifice of his wife.

‘Hush, prince, let me finish what I have to say,’ she said, her voice as
soft as a velvet caress. ‘You have another plan to apprehend the Shadow
King, if I am but merciful and generous enough to grant you another
chance. Something like that, was it?’

Alandrian nodded dumbly, not trusting himself to speak. Between the dark
magic clouding his senses and the sensuous presence of Morathi, he was
quite unable to gather his thoughts. He quivered uncontrollably, caught
between lust and abject terror, both emotions stemming from the same
cause.

‘Good,’ said Morathi, stepping back and crossing her arms across her
perfectly formed chest, her weight on one leg, her smooth thigh exposed
through a slit in her robe. Alandrian forced himself to keep his gaze on
her equally beautiful face, dismissing the temptation to reach out and
stroke that delightful skin. ‘I am not known for my mercy, nor my
generosity, but I would offer nothing less to one who has known such
favour from my son and has given so much in the service of Nagarythe.
Your past actions and loyalty far surpass those of my other subjects,
and you may rest easy for the moment, knowing that you also have my
favour, despite the recent setback you have suffered.’

Released from Morathi’s spell, Alandrian recovered his wits and was
about to offer his profuse thanks, but was stifled by a slight shake of
the head from the queen.

‘Don’t grovel,’ she said, ‘it’s beneath you.’

She turned with a sweep of her arm, hair swirling in a dark cloud about
her shoulders. Alandrian had to look away as Morathi prowled back to her
chair, hips swaying. He looked at her again only when she was seated,
regal and austere once more.

‘Tell me how my faithful minions might help you in your efforts,’
Morathi said.

‘I fear that there is no bait that we can now dangle that will lure the
Shadow King into a trap,’ Alandrian said, speaking confidently, glad
that his speech was well rehearsed, for his thoughts had been scattered
by Morathi’s actions. Just as she had intended, he realised. ‘If we are
to slay this scorpion, we must find his nest and drag him out by the
tail.’

‘I agree,’ said Morathi. ‘How do you plan to find him when so many
thousands of others have failed?’

‘I have been studying the attacks of his warriors, in great detail,’
Alandrian explained. ‘At first they appear capricious, striking east and
west, north and south without pattern. But there is a pattern there, I
have seen it before.’

‘Really?’ said Morathi, leaning forwards with interest, one hand
stroking her delicate chin. ‘What have you seen?’

‘In Elthin Arvan I became a keen hunter; the forests there teem with
game,’ Alandrian said, cautiously taking a step forwards. ‘Some chase
boar, others prefer deer, but I was not interested in those things. I
much preferred to hunt those that also hunt. If you can best the hunter
at his own game, you have truly proven yourself.’

‘A trait I find most appealing at the moment,’ Morathi said with a
smile, her eyes alight with a glimmer of silver fire. ‘Please, carry
on.’

‘The Shadow King hunts like a wolf,’ Alandrian announced with a grin.
‘It is difficult to discern, but it is there. Nagarythe is his territory
and he patrols it regularly, putting his mark on one area before moving
on to the next. In any given year he could strike anywhere, but it has
been six years now and his thoughts are known to me. The attack near
Galthyr is an aberration created by us and I must discount that from my
thinking. After his next attack we will know where he has been and, more
importantly, I know where he will have moved to. We will strike swiftly,
take him unawares.’

‘All of this sounds very worthy, but what is it that you need from me?’
Morathi asked.

‘Nagarythe is too large an area for your sorcerers to cover with their
scrying powers, especially when looking for something constantly
moving,’ Alandrian explained. ‘I can only estimate the Shadow King’s
presence in a general area, too large to sweep by conventional means
without alerting him to our presence. Between my theory and the
abilities of one of your sorcerers we should be able to locate the
Shadow King with precision.’

‘And how will you deal with him once you know where he is?’ Morathi
inquired, sitting back and crossing her arms again.

‘If you would indulge me for a moment, majesty?’ Alandrian asked,
receiving a nod of assent in return.

He left the hall briefly and returned with two other elves, females so
alike as to be twins. They wore breastplates and vambraces of gold
chased with rubies carved with runes of Khaine, which flickered with a
bloody light. Their silver hair was drawn back into long tresses bound
with sinew and circlets of bone; bright blue eyes stared out of masks of
painted blood. Each carried numerous blades: several daggers at their
belts and in their boots; pairs of long swords hanging from their
waists; matched scimitars upon their backs; boots and fingerless gloves
armoured with spikes and blades. Even their fingers were hung with rings
armed with curving talons of gilded iron.

‘Two of Khaine’s most promising slayers,’ Alandrian announced with a
proud smile. ‘I present my precious daughters, Lirieth and Hellebron.’

Morathi stood and walked forwards again, her expression appreciative.
She nodded, gauging the two warrior-maidens closely.

‘Yes,’ Morathi purred. ‘Yes, they would be very fine weapons indeed. You
need someone to guide them to the target.’

Morathi turned and looked at her disciples, before gesturing to one of
the females. She was short and slight in comparison to Alandrian’s
assassins, her dark hair cut at the shoulder. Her skin was even paler
than the queen’s and her hair was shot through with streaks of icy
silver, giving her the appearance of a winter spirit. She regarded the
Khainites coolly, lips pursed, eyes analysing every detail.

‘This one is the best at scrying,’ Morathi announced. ‘Get her close and
she will be able to find the Shadow King for you. Step forwards, dear,
and introduce yourself to the prince.’

The sorceress did as she was bid, giving a perfunctory nod of the head.

‘It will be my pleasure to serve you, Prince Alandrian,’ she said, her
voice as cold as her demeanour. ‘My name is Ashniel.’

Alith’s laughter was echoed by a few of the other shadow warriors, but
many did not share his sanguine view on his close encounter upon the
cliffs. Both Khillrallion and Tharion had voiced concerns that Alith was
becoming reckless, though they had couched their misgivings in more
polite terms.

Some of the survivors of the ambush Alith had sent further east, to
recuperate from their wounds and spread the word of what had happened;
Alith was aware that the druchii would try to claim some form of victory
from the affair and wanted his continued survival to be widely known.
The others he had brought to this haven and some of the shadow-walkers
had been summoned for an impromptu conference, at one of several
sanctuaries the shadow warriors had created across Nagarythe.

Alith held court in a farmhouse a short distance from the town of
Toresse in the south of Nagarythe; a place that had once been populated
by a mix of Naggarothi and Tiranocii and had suffered greatly as a
result while Prince Kheranion had lived. Many of the inhabitants had
been killed or enslaved as ‘half-breed’ and all discontent had been
violently put down by the prince’s soldiers. Like many other brutalised
towns and villages, Toresse had become a centre of quiet dissent against
druchii rule that had found new hope with the coming of the Shadow King.
The owner of the farm moved around the table with loaves of bread and
cuts of lamb, casting awestruck glances at his guest.

‘I am the rat that nips the fingers of those who try to catch me,’ joked
Alith, searching through the wine bottles on the table seeking to refill
his goblet. ‘There is nothing more frustrating for our foes than success
snatched away at the last moment.’

‘Our foes might call the deaths of more than a hundred warriors a
success,’ Tharion said sombrely. He gave a maudlin shake of the head and
stared into his half-empty cup. ‘We have grown arrogant with our
success, believing ourselves untouchable.’

Alith’s humour dissipated and he directed a frown towards Tharion.

‘Every cause demands sacrifice,’ said the Shadow King.

Tharion looked up and met his lord’s stare with a bleak gaze.

‘No cause is furthered by pointless sacrifice,’ he said. ‘Just ask the
thousands that have burned on the pyres of the cultists.’

‘You compare me to the leeches that have sucked the life out of
Nagarythe?’ snarled Alith, hurling aside his goblet. ‘I have asked no
elf to risk any more than I risk myself. I do not send my followers out
to die while I remain safe behind castle walls. I gave you all a choice,
one that you freely accepted. I repeat that now, to you and every shadow
warrior. If you no longer believe in our cause, if you feel you can no
longer fight the war we must fight, you are free to leave Nagarythe. If
you remain, I expect you to fight for me, to follow me as your rightful
king. I demand much, I know, but it is nothing less than I demand of
myself.’

‘You misunderstan–’ began Tharion but Alith cut him off.

‘Now is the time to strike again!’ he declared, turning his attention
away from Tharion to address the others in the room. ‘While the druchii
pat each other on the back and tell each other how close they came to
catching the Shadow King, we will visit upon them a fresh humiliation, a
punishment for their hubris.’

‘Their hubris?’ muttered Tharion.

‘Forgive him, lord,’ cut in Khillrallion before Alith could reply. The
shadow-walker took Tharion by the arm and pulled him up. ‘He has been
most distressed by the thought that you might be taken from us, and he
is not used to strong wine.’

Tharion snatched free his arm and smoothed out the creases in his shirt
sleeve. He looked at the assembled shadow warriors, somewhat unsteadily,
and then focussed on Alith.

‘We fight for you, Alith,’ Tharion murmured. ‘You are the Shadow King,
and we are your shadow army. Without you, there is no us. Are no us?
Whatever. Don’t get yourself killed trying to prove something you’ve
already proven.’

Tharion pushed his way across the room followed by glances from the
others, some angry, others sympathetic. The slam of the door brought a
disconcerted silence, many looking to Alith, some avoiding each other’s
gaze out of embarrassment.

‘He’s just a little drun–’ began Khillrallion.

‘He is in danger of becoming a mother hen, a smothering hen even,’ said
Alith. ‘I am no helpless chick, and neither are my brave, my very brave
shadow warriors. That is the nature of the hunt. Succeed and eat, fail
and starve.’

Alith rounded on the others, anger written across his face.

‘Do you think I want my followers to die?’ he snapped. ‘Did I ask for
our families to be butchered and our homes destroyed? I did not choose
this life, it chose me! The gods and the druchii have made me what I am,
and I will be that thing because our people need it. I do the things I
do, terrible things, we do the terrible things we do, so that those that
come after us might not have to do the same.’

Alith ripped off his woollen shirt and turned his back on the shadow
warriors, showing them the scar of the whip blow he had suffered in
Anlec. He turned back to face them, pointing to more wounds upon his
body and arms, those from the flight at the cliffs still livid.

‘These injuries are as nothing to the suffering our people endure!’ he
raged, scattering the bottles with a sweep of his arm. He looked upwards
but in his mind’s eye did not see the beamed ceiling but rather the
everlasting heavens where the gods were said to dwell. ‘A cut, a bruise,
what do they mean? True torment is in the spirit. The spirit of a whole
generation crushed by the evil of the druchii. What more must I give to
spare them what I have experienced?’

Alith stooped and picked up a bottle from the floor. He brought it down
on the edge of the table, smashing it. Staring again at the gods only he
could see, he raised the broken pottery to his chest.

‘Do you want more blood, is that it?’ he cried out. ‘Perhaps you want me
dead? Like my mother and father. No more Anars. Would that satisfy you?’

Khillrallion grabbed his lord’s arm and wrenched the broken bottle from
his fingers, tossing it aside. He said nothing and simply laid his arm
across Alith’s shoulders, pulling him close. The Shadow King pushed him
away and half-turned before stumbling and falling to his knees.

‘Why me?’ Alith sobbed, burying his face in his hands, blood streaming
as his fresh wounds reopened.

The other shadow warriors gathered close, patting Alith on the shoulder
and laying comforting hands on his head.

‘Because you are the Shadow King,’ said Khillrallion, kneeling next to
his leader. ‘Because nobody else can do it.’

The following morning no mention was made of Alith’s outburst. The
discussion amongst the shadow warriors after Alith had departed had been
one of solidarity with their leader. They knew they could never share
the burdens he had chosen to bear, and had reaffirmed their faith in
each other and the Shadow King. Some had remarked that it was all too
easy to think of the Shadow King and forget the Alith Anar that was
obscured by the title: an elf barely into adulthood who had lost
everything and taken it upon himself to become the spirit of vengeance
for all of them.

After breakfasting, Alith called his band to him and took them south,
coming upon the waters of the Naganath before midday. From the
concealment of a boulder-strewn hillock, Alith pointed westwards, to a
stone bridge that arced over the river, a fortified tower at each end.
The river was narrow and fast, less than two hundred paces wide.

‘The Ethruin crossing,’ Alith told his warriors with an impish smile.
‘It is the most direct route between Anlec and Tor Anroc. In the summer
the closest crossings are two days west or a further day and a half
east. In the winter the ford at Eathin Anror is impassable, adding
another day to the journey if one wishes to go by the eastern route.
Imagine Morathi’s irritation when next an army marches south only to
find the bridge gone?’

‘Irritation, lord?’ said Tharion. ‘Two garrisoned towers seem a tough
nut to crack only to cause some irritation.’

‘You’re missing the point, Tharion,’ said Alith. ‘I want the druchii to
come after me. It was a close thing at Galthyr, but I have learnt the
lesson. Our enemies will divert valuable resources to finding me. They
are used to the attacks of the shadow warriors, but the Shadow King,
well he is the source of all their frustrations. I want to mock them. I
want them so mad that they’ll do whatever they can to find me. When they
do that, they will make a mistake and we will exploit it, whatever it
turns out to be. Imagine having to double the garrison on every crossing
in Nagarythe. Every storehouse and grain barn will need guarding. While
they scrabble around for the Shadow King, the other shadow warriors will
roam free and cause anarchy.’

‘You think that being deliberately petty will rile them even more?’
asked Tharion.

‘I wanted them scared, but their near-success will allay some of that
fear, for a while at least,’ said Alith. ‘That being the case, I must
select a different shaft for my bow, one that will not strike deep but
will strike many times. Like the persistent wasp, I shall sting them
again and again, each wound not sufficient to kill, but enough to
infuriate. If they think they can get the better of the Shadow King, I
will prove them otherwise. Just when they think I’m done, I’ll be back,
again and again, stinging them until they cry. They can swat and flail
until they are screaming and breathless, and still I’ll come back!’

‘I understand,’ said Tharion. ‘One other question, though.’

‘What?’ replied Alith.

‘How do we make a bridge disappear?’

Alith was heartily sick of the stench of fish. It was in the fisherman’s
smock he wore, in his hair, under his fingernails. He sat in the shadow
of the fishing boat’s sail as it slid gently along the Naganath towards
the Ethruin bridge. Druchii soldiers stood at either end of the span,
checking the occasional carts and wagons that crossed the border. More
warriors could be seen drilling close to the northern tower.

All was as it had been for the last fifteen days. The druchii were
content to let the flotilla of boats pass up and down the river, as they
had done so for hundreds of years. The white-painted vessels warranted
barely a glance, so familiar were they. All of the boats were from
Toresse. Their owners did not know what Alith had intended, but had been
willing to aid the Shadow King if it meant discomfort for their
overlords.

As the boat lowered its mast and passed under the bridge, Alith slipped
over the bulwark into the water, along with the other three shadow
warriors hiding amongst the crew. They swam swiftly to the brick bank
beneath the bridge and pulled themselves out of the water. Removing
several of the blocks to reveal a hiding place, Alith pulled out
wool-wrapped bundles of tools: broad chisels and mallets with cushioned
heads.

The four of them pulled themselves up by means of a web of narrow ropes
that had been constructed under the bridge, hung from hooks that had
been screwed into the mortar of the bridge itself. Taking up their
places, backs to the water rushing below, they continued their work,
carefully chipping away at the mortar, the soft taps of their muffled
hammers hidden by the gurgle and swirl of the Naganath. When a stone had
been sufficiently loosened, they brought out wooden wedges, knocking the
supports into place to keep the bridge intact for the time being.

In this painstaking fashion Alith and his followers had taken apart the
bridge block by block, using the wedges and the natural pressure of its
arch to keep the structure in one piece. The ropes that held them out of
the water were also passed through holes cut in the thick ends of the
wedges, allowing them to be pulled free at a later time.

Nearly two-thirds of the bridge had been thus prepared for demolition,
by small teams of shadow warriors working in shifts from dawn until
dusk. It was muscle-aching and mind-numbing work, lying virtually
immobile in their rope cradles, repetitively working away at a finger’s
length of mortar at a time.

Until midday Alith and his companions laboured, when the fishing fleet
returned and they were picked up, another team of shadow warriors
replacing them. The boats were moored at Toresse and Alith stepped onto
the quay to find Khillrallion waiting for him. The shadow-walker was
pensive.

‘Bad tidings, friend?’ Alith asked.

‘Perhaps,’ said Khillrallion. The two of them turned off the road that
led into the town and made their way along the reed-strewn bank of the
river. ‘Tharion is missing.’

‘I saw him only this morning, as I left on the boats,’ said Alith. ‘He
cannot have gone far.’

Khillrallion’s expression was part-grimace and part-smile.

‘I sent some of the others to look for him, but though he was late to
the lesson he has learned the arts of the shadows well. There is no sign
of where he has gone.’

‘Sometimes we all need some time alone,’ Alith reasoned.

‘Not Tharion,’ Khillrallion argued. ‘He has never been shy in speaking
his mind amongst others, and has no problem confiding his woes to me. He
feels his age and a misplaced guilt over the fall of Elanardris.’

‘Misplaced?’ said Alith. ‘None of our guilt is misplaced, we all must
accept that we played a part in the downfall of the Anars, even if our
intentions were the opposite.’

‘I would suggest you do not say such things to Tharion, if we find him,’
said Khillrallion. ‘Since Cerin Hiuath he has been preoccupied with the
dynasty of the Anars. He is of a far older breed than you and I, one of
your grandfather’s generation. We all despise what has become of
Ulthuan, but it is only those that were there when she was saved from
the daemons who really feel what has been lost. They gave their blood
once to save our people, and they thought they did so in order that we
who came later would not have to.’

‘But why has this affected him now?’ asked Alith. He sat down at the
river’s edge and Khillrallion sat beside him. ‘For six years we have
fought the druchii.’

‘You have become the Shadow King, but Tharion can only see you as Alith
Anar, grandson and son to two of his closest friends, the last of their
line. For you Elanardris is now a memory, the shadow war has become your
new legacy. For Tharion, that lineage, that tradition, is still embodied
in you. You are not the Shadow King, you are the last of the Anars. He
does not trust the Caledorians or the Chracians or any of the others to
restore that which has been lost in our lands. Only while you live can
he still cling to the hope that the glory of Elanardris, all of
Nagarythe, might be restored. He fears that if you die, all hope dies
with you.’

Alith pondered this without comment. He had endured some of Tharion’s
stubbornness and old-fashioned thinking out of a sense of duty to the
veteran. In truth he tried not to dwell on the ageing elf too much, for
Alith could not think of Tharion without also thinking of Eoloran,
possibly dead, more likely languishing in some cell in Anlec. In all he
had found it better not to think too much about the past, only the
promise of revenge held by the future.

Alith thought about Tharion’s concerns, as voiced by Khillrallion.
Perhaps he was too possessed of being the Shadow King that he had
forgotten who he was beneath the title. But that person lived in
constant pain, surrounded by dark memories and feelings of impotence.
The heir of the Anars had been powerless; the Shadow King was powerful.
It brought its own woes and pain, but they were as nothing compared to
the agony that awaited him once he had fulfilled his oath. What then?
Alith asked himself. Who would he be when the shadow war was over?
Perhaps Tharion would know.

‘Find him for me,’ Alith said quietly, laying a hand on Khillrallion’s
arm. ‘Tell him that I need him with me, and I have something very
important for him to do.’

Tharion had still not been found when the time came for Alith to enact
the second part of his plan. It was dusk, thirty days since the peril of
Cerin Hiuath, and the Shadow King was poised to prove that he was not
dead. Alith and his warriors were concealed amongst the trees and rushes
that bordered the river east of the bridge. The boats and their crews
were at the Toresse quays, ready for the signal to come downriver.

As darkness fell, several lights could be seen to the north, in woods
that bordered the Anlec road. Flickering red and thin columns of smoke
betrayed the presence of several fires. Their presence did not go
unnoticed by the watchers in the guard towers and soon the trumpets were
calling the garrison to order. Spear and sword companies were mustered
at the north end of the bridge, their commander shouting excited
commands. With a tramp of feet, the force marched to investigate.

When they were out of sight, Alith and the shadow warriors slipped out
of hiding, bows ready. The towers would not be completely abandoned, but
Alith knew he had enough warriors to deal with those druchii that
remained.

The Shadow King led his fighters to the north tower, approaching the
bridge silently. A cluster of figures stood atop the battlement gazing
to the north. As at Koril Atir, the shadow warriors soundlessly scaled
the walls of the tower. The druchii had hung chains festooned with barbs
and spikes beneath the battlements to prevent such a move. Alith and the
others bound their hands with cloth and pulled them gently aside to
allow each other to pass.

Once on the rampart, it was a matter of a single volley to fell the
guards, though two let out piercing cries of pain as they died. Alith
had considered this and ran to the south side of the tower.

‘Come quickly!’ he cried out across the river. ‘We caught some of the
Shadow King’s scum! The others are getting away! Quick!’

Alith split his warriors, sending some into the tower to ensure every
room was clear, keeping the rest atop the tower. It was not long before
the gate of the other guard house swung open and a stream of several
dozen warriors emerged onto the bridge.

‘Wait until they’re close,’ Alith told the warriors crouched behind the
embrasures even as he waved the druchii to hurry up.

When the enemy were halfway across the bridge, Alith gave his shadow
warriors the nod. They rose up behind the battlement and unleashed a
storm of arrows at the druchii, cutting down half of them. They turned
tail, fleeing towards the far end of the bridge, only to be met by
another contingent of shadow warriors that had swum across the river to
cut off their retreat.

As the last of the sun’s rays glimmered and then disappeared, Alith had
control of both ends of the bridge. Looking to the east, he saw white
shapes ghosting down the river: the sails of the fishing fleet. After
mooring their ships, the crews swarmed over the bridge with more lengths
of rope, which they tied to the net already hanging under the bridge.
The elves crowded the banks of the river, a dozen to each rope. Alith
took his place, gripping the rope tight.

‘Heave!’ he bellowed, pulling with all of his weight.

The wedges resisted at first, but after a moment there was a shift as
the elves strained on the ropes. First one wedge fell free, and then
another. Alith exhorted his company to a greater effort and with one
pull the supports were dragged free. With a drawn-out grinding, the
keystones fell into the river and the whole bridge collapsed after,
sending up a splash that ­spattered Alith with water. Waves lapped over
the banks, wetting Alith’s feet.

Already the ship crews were jumping aboard their vessels, ropes still in
hand, dragging the stone blocks out of the river’s depths. As each block
was hauled over the bulwark, a slipknot was loosened and the stone fell
free onto the deck. The fisherman had assured Alith that the twelve
boats would be sufficient to move the stones upriver, where they would
be dropped back into the river, hidden but never forgotten.

The Shadow King turned to the warrior behind him, a youngster named
Thirian.

‘Time for some heavy lifting,’ Alith said with a wink.

With a mixture of disappointment and relief, Khelthrain led his warriors
back down the road. Whoever had lit the campfires had decided to flee
rather than face his soldiers. On the one hand it was a shame that the
insurgents had eluded him; on the other, Khelthrain was glad he had not
faced the terrifying apparitions that so many other captains had fallen
prey to. Not wishing to be out in the wilds while there remained the
potential of ambush, he had quickly turned the column around and headed
back to the safety of the towers. It was in generally light spirits that
he marched along the road to his guardhouses, mentally composing the
report of the incident he would have to send to Anlec. The orders had
been explicit: any sighting or possible sighting of the so-called shadow
warriors was to be passed on, with specific details of time and place.

The reassuring presence of the two towers rose up in the starlight and
Khelthrain’s thoughts began to turn to his bed. It was a pity that he
would be sleeping alone, unlike some of those lucky wretches who had
garrisons in the towns and cities, but at least he was out of the way
and rarely bothered by the rulers in the capital. Ambition had never
been high on Khelthrain’s priorities, and a certain degree of
middle-rank obscurity suited his nature.

Something seemed wrong as they approached the northern tower. Khelthrain
wasn’t sure what was amiss. He could see several figures standing
immobile atop the battlements and the gate was closed. Then it struck
him. He could see the glitter of the river beyond the gatehouse where he
should have seen dark stone.

Khelthrain stopped dead in his stride, the warrior behind him clattering
into his back, almost knocking the commander from his feet. The warrior
bent to help him and then straightened, eyes wide with surprise.

‘Captain?’ he said hesitantly. ‘Where is our bridge?’

There were dozens of maps of Nagarythe arranged over three tables.
Alandrian paced between them with a sheaf of parchments in one hand.

‘Here,’ he said, pointing to a village where grain intended for horse
fodder had been stolen.

A functionary, barefoot and clad only in a black loincloth, stepped
forwards with a quill and a pot of red ink. He delicately marked a cross
on the map at the indicated place, adding it to the many such marks
already made.

‘And here,’ Alandrian continued, indicating an attack on a patrol out of
Ealith.

‘Oh, wait…’ the prince whispered. He stopped and read the next report
again, letting the others shower to the floor. ‘Oh, yes. You’re a
cunning bastard, aren’t you?’

‘Prince?’ said the servant.

Alandrian ignored him, striding to the map of the Naganath area. He
stared at the chart for some time, his mind firing fast. He traced a
finger eastwards along the Naganath. No, there was nothing there. The
Shadow King wouldn’t be dull enough to take another bridge. But he would
go eastwards. Always after his most daring escapades he went east, back
towards the mountains. It was like a homing instinct.

Alandrian brought another map to the top of the pile, of the area north
and east of Toresse. He scoured the landmarks and settlements, seeking
something of significance. A yellow circle caught his eye.

‘This?’ he demanded, gesturing to the servant. ‘What is this? At Athel
Yranuir?’

The functionary peered at the map, brow creased in thought.

‘It is a tax house, prince,’ he announced. ‘Tithes are gathered there
before being brought by armed column to Anlec.’

‘And when is the next collection due?’

‘Give me a moment, prince, and I will find out,’ said the servant.

While he was gone, Alandrian stared at the map. The servant’s
information would confirm it, but Alandrian already had a strong
suspicion about the Shadow King’s next move. Eastwards he would go, away
from the torrid time he had suffered at Galthyr, away from his joke at
Toresse. But he wouldn’t go too far east before striking again, not
while he was still riding high from his prank.

‘The harvest taxes will be collected in four days’ time, my prince,’ the
servant announced as he entered. ‘A contingent of knights will be moving
out of Ealith tomorrow.’

Alandrian closed his eyes, blocking out everything save his knowledge of
the Shadow King. Four days was not a long time to prepare. Would the
Shadow King be able to put together an ad-hoc plan at such notice? Did
he even realise the opportunity that awaited him?

It didn’t matter. If Alandrian was the Shadow King, that’s where he
would be. He knew it.

‘Please send word to Lady Ashniel, and to my daughters,’ Alandrian said,
his eyes snapping open. ‘Ask them to prepare for a ride. We have a wolf
to catch.’

‘Shall I also send warning to the troops at Ealith and the garrison of
Athel Yranuir?’ the servant inquired.

Alandrian looked at the servant as if he had suggested that the prince
dance naked around the room singing children’s songs.

‘Don’t be ridiculous,’ he said. ‘Why spoil the fun?’

There was an aesthetic pleasure in the contrast between gold and red:
gold of coin and red of blood. Alith wiped a thumb across the face of
the coin, smearing the crimson across the rune of Nagarythe imprinted
upon it. Blood money, he thought, smiling at the joke.

He tossed the coin to Khillrallion, who was sweeping piles of money from
the tables into a heavy sack. Another five shadow warriors did likewise
in other counting rooms while a further twenty-five kept watch,
stationed on the tiled roof and at the narrow arrow slits that served as
windows.

Alith strode to one such embrasure, checking the time. The sun had set
and the Chaos moon was already easing above the mountains, its sickly
glow heavy behind the gathering clouds. The tax collectors were on their
way; he had learnt as much from the gasped confessions of the druchii
who had guarded the money. He glanced towards their bodies, faces and
mouths glistening from molten gold that had been poured down their
throats as punishment for such greed. It was unlikely the knights would
arrive during the night, giving the shadow warriors plenty of time to
take everything and disappear.

Rain pattered on the stone road outside, and Alith peered again into the
gloom, irked by some sense he could not quite define. He had been on
edge since coming to Athel Yranuir. The town was unremarkable save for
the counting house, neither a safe haven for the shadow warriors nor
dominated by the druchii. Alith had noticed the elders’ hall showed
signs of perversion to Khaine – bronze braziers in the archways and
bloodstains upon the steps – but he had seen no other signs of the
cults’ sway.

The attack had gone just as he had planned and not a single shadow
warrior had been wounded. There was no reason for his disquiet, and
Alith dismissed it as understandable paranoia following his experience
at Cerin Hiuath. In some ways he welcomed the thrill of uncertainty. It
added an edge of excitement that he had not felt in some time, a feeling
of being alive.

Between the darkening skies and the growing downpour, Alith could barely
see the other buildings around the tax house. He looked out across the
market square and could dimly see the elders’ chambers on the far side.
To the left stood a row of craftsmen’s stores, their fronts enclosed by
blue-painted boards. To the right were winehouses and stables. The
former were empty, having been closed at Alith’s first appearance. The
people of Athel Yranuir would not hinder the shadows warriors, but they
would not help, and had vanished as soon as the fighting had begun.
Alith could not blame them; most folks feared reprisals from Anlec for
aiding the shadow warriors.

‘We’re almost finished,’ announced Khillrallion. Alith turned to see him
hefting a laden sack onto a pile beside the main door.

‘Good,’ said the Shadow King. ‘There should be wagons and horses at the
stables. Send Thrinduir and Meneithon to fetch two.’

Khillrallion nodded and left the room. Alith heard him relaying the
order and turned back to the square, ill-at-ease. He glared at the
concealing rain, wondering what it was that his eyes could not see but
his heart could feel. He cast his gaze higher, seeing the tops of the
enormous evergreen forest that surrounded the town, which shared its
name. Perfect cover for his forces to use if the knights arrived from
Ealith. He was worrying about nothing.

‘Are you sure?’ Alandrian asked again.

Ashniel nodded once, her face showing a glimpse of irritation. Alandrian
looked away, unable to meet the sorceress’s gaze. Her eyes had become
glistening orbs of black, which reflected an exaggerated version of
Alandrian’s face when he looked into them: a cyclopean mask of scar
tissue.

‘He is there,’ she said calmly. ‘He is touched by Kurnous and he leaves
a trail upon the winds. It passes quickly but I can sense it. Your
assumption was correct.’

‘Do we get to kill him now?’ asked Lirieth, baring teeth filed to points
and capped with rubies.

‘I want to taste his blood,’ said Hellebron, panting with excitement.
‘I’ve never tasted the blood of a king, shadow or not.’

‘He’ll taste like wolf meat,’ laughed Lirieth. ‘Isn’t that right,
magic-weaver?’

Ashniel turned away with a sneer while Alandrian smiled at his
daughters’ enthusiasm. Truly they had embraced the changes of these new
times and he was certain they would both enjoy great success and power
in the regime that was rising to rule Ulthuan.

He didn’t understand much of it himself, being of a far older breed, but
he knew opportunity when it came and had exploited this one to its full
potential. Morathi had brought her priests and sorcerers to Athel
Toralien and it had irked Malekith, but when the prince had left for his
campaign in the northlands Alandrian had seen the wisdom of allowing
them to flourish. He had been careful to curb too many excesses, wary of
allowing the colony to devolve into the kind of barbarism Yeasir had
warned was gripping Anlec.

That foresight had paid off. The Cult of Khaine was fast-growing, second
in power only to Morathi’s court. His daughters were well placed to ride
the bloodthirsty stallion trampling upon the heads of the other sects of
Ulthuan. In the shorter term, they had developed skills that were
profoundly useful in this current matter.

‘Yes, you can kill him soon,’ the prince said. While there were
advantages to bringing in the Shadow King alive, dead was safer for all
involved. One did not bring Khainite assassins to take prisoners.

Rain began to fall, splashing through the needle canopy above. In the
darkness, the lights of Athel Yranuir shone between the trees. A murmur
from Ashniel caused him to turn.

‘I sense he is getting ready to leave,’ the seeress said, staring
through Alandrian at some otherworldly sight. ‘We must move now.’

Alith worked with the others, carrying the bags of gold from the
treasure house to the carts in the square. His hair was plastered across
his face, his clothes sodden and chafing. It seemed an inglorious end to
what should have been one of the great tales of the shadow warriors. He
shrugged and exchanged a smile with Casadir as they passed in the
doorway.

‘It rains on the druchii as well,’ remarked the shadow warrior.

‘They have roofs to cover them tonight,’ replied Alith. ‘We’ll be
sleeping in the woods.’

‘I wouldn’t have it…’ Casadir’s voice trailed off and his eyes narrowed.
Alith looked over his shoulder into the town square to see what had
alerted him.

Four figures approached through the rain, walking calmly towards the
shadow warriors. They were hard to make out, but there was something
about their demeanour that fired Alith’s instinct for danger.

‘Everyone inside!’ he hissed, waving the shadow warriors into the trove.

The shadow warriors barred the door and Alith called out the orders,
positioning his warriors at the casements and sending them up the spiral
stairs to the roof tower.

‘Oh…’ exclaimed Khillrallion, looking out of one of the windows. ‘That’s
not good.’

‘What is it?’ Alith demanded, stepping to the window.

‘Best not to look,’ said Khillrallion with a haunted expression,
standing between Alith and the embrasure. They jostled from side-to-side
until Alith shoved Khillrallion out of his path and strode up to the
narrow opening. He gazed out into the night to see what had caused
Khillrallion’s consternation.

He saw a druchii in the ornate silver armour of a prince, sword in his
left hand, a shorter blade in his right. He was flanked by two
outlandish maidens, Khainites by their dress and weapons. Water sparkled
from bared metal, the edges of their blades glinting menacingly. For all
of their fearsome appearance, Alith did not quite understand
Khillrallion’s discomfort.

His eye was drawn to a fourth figure, a little way behind the others.
She wore a heavy purple robe tied with a belt studded with diamonds. In
the light of the Chaos moon her skin took on a pale green tone, the
white streaks in her hair standing out in the darkness like lightning
strikes. Her face…

Her face was known to Alith. The eyes were whirling orbs of magic and
the expression one of cold indifference. But her lips, thin, and her
delicate nose and chin were all too familiar.

Alith fell back from the window with a groan of pain, the sight of
Ashniel like a physical wound in his gut. Alith stumbled to his knees,
moaning wordlessly.

‘I told you not to look,’ rasped Khillrallion, grabbing Alith by the
shoulders and hauling him to his feet. There was panic in the Shadow
King’s eyes, the look of a child suddenly finding himself lost and
alone.

Alith took a step towards the door, mindless, and Khillrallion hauled
him back.

‘You can’t go out there,’ said the shadow-walker. ‘They’ll cut you to
pieces.’

‘I want the Shadow King!’ a deep voice called from outside. ‘Nobody else
has to die.’

Alith was regaining something of his composure but was still unsteady on
his feet.

‘It is her, isn’t it?’ he whispered.

Khillrallion nodded. There was nothing he could say. Alith closed his
eyes, steeling himself, and then looked out of the window again. The
prince and Ashniel were still there; the two Khainites were nowhere to
be seen.

‘Be on your guard,’ snapped Alith, his instincts taking control. ‘Watch
the door and the roof!’

A tense silence descended, broken only by the rattle of rain on the
rooftiles and the splash on the square outside. Alith went from one
arrow slit to the next, trying to find where the Khainites had gone. It
was not long before Khillrallion called him back to the front of the
building.

Outside, the Khainites flanked the prince once more. At their feet knelt
two children: one a boy, the other a girl. They gripped their captives
by the hair, pulling back their heads, curved daggers at their throats.

‘I want the Shadow King,’ the prince called again. ‘These will only be
the first two if you do not come out.’

Alith snatched the moonbow from its quiver and took a step towards the
door before Khillrallion tackled him from behind, both of them tumbling
to the floor.

‘You cannot go out there!’ the shadow-walker repeated as Alith kicked
himself away and got to his feet. Several of the shadow warriors had
closed in, standing between their lord and the doorway. Their
expressions betrayed their agreement with Khillrallion.

‘Have it your way!’ came the pronouncement from the square.

Alith leapt to the window in time to see arcs of blood streaming from
the two children, the Khainites’ blades flashing in the rain. Spilled
blood merged with the puddles as the small bodies were dropped like rag
dolls.

‘Shall I have them fetch two more?’ the prince taunted. ‘Perhaps some
even younger this time?’

‘No!’ wailed Alith. He wheeled on the shadow warriors, lips curled back
in a snarl. ‘We cannot allow this!’

The shadow warriors by the door looked resolute.

‘We’ll deal with this,’ said Casadir, pulling back the heavy bolt.

‘If they want the Shadow King, they shall have him,’ Alith said, fitting
an arrow to the string of the moonbow. ‘Kill the Khainites first. Leave
the sorceress to me.’

Alith looked out of the window as the door was thrown open. Arrows sped
through the darkness. In a whirl of shining metal, the Khainites swung
their blades and cartwheeled away, the arrows ricocheting from their
swords. At a nod from their master, they came forwards at a run.

More arrows sliced through the rain to meet them. With supernatural
speed, the pair somersaulted and swirled, dodging every missile. They
reached a full sprint and would have been at the door in moments.
Several of the shadow warriors leapt out into the square to meet their
charge while Casadir swung the door shut behind them. The clang of the
bolt rang heavily in Alith’s ears, like the locking of a condemned elf’s
cell.

Alith felt the bite of every cut with a gasp as the Khainites sliced
through the four shadow warriors without breaking stride. Throats were
slit, tendons severed, limbs lopped away. It was over in a heartbeat,
the remains of Alith’s followers lying at the Khainites’ feet, blood
running in rivulets across the flagstones. One of the Khainites lifted a
dagger to her mouth and licked the blade clean. She turned to her
companion with a feral grin.

‘More dog than wolf,’ she said.

The two took up defensive stances next to each other, one fixed on the
doorway, the other looking to the warriors on the roof.

‘Can we have some more playthings?’ the Khainite with bloodied lips
called out.

‘This has to end!’ said Alith, crossing quickly to the doorway.

‘Yes it does,’ agreed Khillrallion. Behind Alith, the shadow-walker
glanced at the others and received nods of understanding.

‘Can I keep one as a pet?’ asked Lirieth, darting a quick glance over
her shoulder towards her father.

‘Bring me the head of the Shadow King and you can have whatever you
desire,’ Alandrian replied.

He felt a chill and looked to his right. Ashniel was standing beside
him. The rain around her was turning into snowflakes, freezing on her
skin, tiny icicles hanging from her long eyelashes, her hair rimed with
ice.

‘It’s true what they say in Anlec, isn’t it?’ said the prince. ‘You
really are a cold-hearted bitch.’

Ashniel turned a haunting smile towards him but said nothing.

The door to the tax house slammed open again and the shadow warriors
poured out, some with bows in hands, others grasping swords. Lirieth and
Hellebron spun around each other as they deflected the hail of arrows,
cutting through the shafts in flight.

Ashniel stepped forwards and threw out a hand. Alandrian felt the warmth
leeched from his body as the air around her churned with ice and
blackness. A storm of snow-white shards flew from her fingertips,
scything into the shadow warriors. Frozen droplets of blood tinkled to
the ground where the chill wind slashed through flesh, skin turning blue
from cold at their slightest graze. Bows dropped from numbed fingertips
and arrows splintered in the air.

Under the cover of the arrow volley the other shadow warriors had
charged forwards, meeting the Khainite sisters blade-to-blade. Iron
chimed against iron, but the fight was over in moments, Lirieth
crouching low to cut the legs from her foes while Hellebron struck high,
decapitating everyone within reach. The scene more closely resembled a
butcher’s yard than a town square by the time they had finished. Lirieth
stooped and with a flick of her wrist, cut free the heart from one of
her victims. She sheathed her other weapon and flicked the still-warm
organ to her free hand. With a pout, she raised it above her head,
squeezing hard, blood streaming down her arm and splashing onto her
face.

‘Praise Khaine!’ she shrieked.

There was a flicker of movement at the doorway. A cloaked elf appeared
with a silvery bow in hand. Quicker than the eye could follow, he loosed
an arrow. The shaft took Lirieth in the throat, ripping her from her
feet, sending her sprawling onto the wet flagstones.

Hellebron screamed, a sound of pure rage, and leapt forwards. Another
arrow sang through the air but she cut it aside. She dodged the next
with a spinning leap, her long bound bringing her within striking
distance of her foe. Her left hand lashed out, its blades barely missing
the face of her enemy. The right hand found its mark, plunging a slender
sword under the ribs of her prey, its point erupting in a fountain of
blood from his right shoulder. Blood bubbled from his lips as Hellebron
ripped the blade free and twirled, slashing head from neck.

Flicking droplets of blood from her blades, she sheathed her weapons and
prised the magnificent bow from the elf’s dead fingers. Hellebron turned
and held her trophy towards Alandrian, who clapped appreciatively.

‘I think we best make that a gift to Morathi,’ said the prince and
Hellebron’s shoulders sagged with disappointment. Alandrian pointed to
the shadow warriors who had been incapacitated by Ashniel’s enchantment.
‘You can do what you like with those.’

Alandrian’s eye was drawn to a pair of shadowy shapes fleeing across the
rooftop. Ashniel raised her hand to unleash another spell but the prince
stopped her.

‘Let them go,’ he said. ‘Let them take the news to the others. The
Shadow King is dead!’
