



Fields of golden crop bent gently in a magical breeze as the palace of
Prince Thyriol floated across Saphery. A shimmering vision of white and
silver towers and dove-wing buttresses, the citadel eased across the
skies with the stately grace of a cloud. Slender minarets and spiralling
steeples rose in circles surrounding a central gilded needle that
glimmered with magic.

The farmers glanced up at the familiar beauty of the citadel and
returned to their labours. If any of them wondered what events passed
within the capital, none made mention of it to their companions. From
the ground the floating citadel appeared as serene and ordered as ever,
a reassuring vision to those that wondered when the war with the
Naggarothi would come to their lands.

In truth, the palace was anything but peaceful.

Deep within the alabaster spires, Prince Thyriol strode to a wooden door
at the end of a long corridor and tried to open it. The door was barred
and magically locked. There were numerous counter-spells with which he
could negotiate the obstacle, but he was in no mood for such things.
Thyriol laid his hand upon the white-painted planks of the door and
summoned the wind of fire. As his growing anger fanned the magic, the
paint blistered and the planks charred under his touch. As Thyriol
contemplated the treachery he had suffered, and his own blindness to it,
the invisible flames burned faster and deeper than any natural fire.
Within ten heartbeats the door collapsed into cinders and ash.

Revealed within was a coterie of elves. They looked up at their prince,
startled and fearful. Bloody entrails were scattered on the bare stone
floor, arranged in displeasing patterns that drew forth Dark Magic. They
sat amidst a number of dire tomes bound with black leather and skin.
Candles made of bubbling fat flickered dully on stands made from
blackened iron. Sorcery seethed in the air, making Thyriol’s gums itch
and slicking his skin with its oily touch.

The missing mages were all here, forbidden runes painted upon their
faces with blood, fetishes of bone and sinew dangling around their
necks. Thyriol paid them no heed. All of his attention was fixed upon
one elf, the only one who showed no sign of fear.

Words escaped Thyriol. The shame and sense of betrayal that filled
Thyriol was beyond any means of expression, though some of it showed in
the prince’s face, twisted into a feral snarl even as tears of fire
formed in his eyes.

Faerie lights glittered from extended fingertips and silver coronas
shimmered around faces fixed in concentration as the young mages
practised their spells. Visions of distant lands wavered in the air and
golden clouds of protection wreathed around the robed figures. The air
seemed to bubble with magical energy, the winds of magic made almost
visible by the spells of the apprentices.

The students formed a semicircle around their tutors at the centre of a
circular, domed hall – the Grand Chamber. The white wall was lined with
alcoves containing sculptures of marble depicting the greatest mages of
Ulthuan; some in studious repose, others in the flow of flamboyant
conjurations, according to the tastes of successive generations of
sculptors. All were austere, looking down with stern but not unkindly
expressions on future generations. Their looks of strict expectation
were repeated on the faces of Prince Thyriol and Menreir.

‘You are speaking too fast,’ Thyriol told Ellinithil, youngest of the
would-be mages, barely two hundred years old. ‘Let the spell form as
words in your mind before you speak.’

Ellinithil nodded, brow furrowed. He started the conjuration again but
stuttered the first few words.

‘You are not concentrating,’ Thyriol said softly, laying a reassuring
hand on the young elf’s shoulder. He raised his voice to address the
whole class. ‘Finish your incantations safely and then listen to me.’

The apprentices dissipated the magic they had been weaving; illusions
vapourised into air, magical flames flickered and dimmed into darkness.
As each finished, he or she turned to the prince. All were intent, but
none more so that Anamedion, Thyriol’s eldest grandson. Anamedion’s eyes
bore into his grandfather as if by his gaze alone he could prise free
the secrets of magic locked inside Thyriol’s mind.

‘Celabreir,’ said Thyriol, gesturing to one of the students to step
forward. ‘Conjure Emendeil’s Flame for me.’

Celabreir glanced uncertainly at her fellow apprentices. The spell was
one of the simplest to cast, often learnt in childhood even before any
formal teaching had begun. With a shrug, the elf whispered three words
of power and held up her right hand, fingers splayed. A flickering
golden glow emanated from her fingertips, barely enough to light her
slender face and brazen hair.

‘Good,’ said Thyriol. ‘Now, end it and cast it again.’

Celabreir dispersed the magic energy with a flick of her wrist, her
fingertips returning to normal. Just as she opened her mouth to begin
the incantation again, Thyriol spoke.

‘Do you breathe in or out when you cast a spell?’ he asked.

A frown knotted Celabreir’s brow for a moment. Distracted, she missed a
syllable in the spell. Shaking her head, she tried again, but failed.

‘What have you done to me, prince?’ she asked plaintively. ‘Is this some
counter-spell you are using?’

Thyriol laughed gently, as did Menreir. Thyriol nodded for the other
mage to explain the lesson and returned to his high-backed throne at the
far end of the hall.

‘You are thinking about how you breathe, aren’t you?’ said Menreir.

‘I… Yes, I am, master,’ said Celabreir, her shoulders slumping. ‘I don’t
know whether I breathe in or out when I cast. I can’t remember, but if I
think about it I realise that I might be doing it differently because I
am aware of it now.’

‘And so you are no longer concentrating on your control of the magic,’
said Menreir. ‘A spell you could cast without effort you now find…
problematic. Even the most basic spells are still fickle if you do not
have total focus. The simplest distraction – an overheard whisper or a
flicker of movement in the corner of the eye – can be the difference
between success and failure. Knowing this, who can tell me why
Ellinithil is having difficulty?’

‘He is thinking about the words and not the spell,’ said Anamedion, a
hint of contempt in his voice. He made no attempt to hide his boredom.
‘The more he worries about his pronunciation, the more distracted his
inner voice.’

‘That’s right,’ said Thyriol, quelling a stab of annoyance. Anamedion
had not called Menreir ‘master’, a title to which he had earned over
many centuries, a sign of growing disrespect that Thyriol would have to
address. ‘Most of you already have the means to focus the power you need
for some of the grandest enchantments ever devised by our people, but
until you can cast them without effort or thought, that power is useless
to you. Remember that the smallest magic can go a long way.’

‘There is another way to overcome these difficulties,’ said Anamedion,
stepping forward. ‘Why do you not teach us that?’

Thyriol regarded Anamedion for a moment, confused.

‘Control is the only means to master true magic,’ said the prince.

Anamedion shook his head, and half-turned, addressing the other students
as much as his grandfather.

‘There is a way to tap into magic, unfettered by incantation and
ritual,’ said Anamedion. ‘Shaped by instinct and powered by raw magic,
it is possible to cast the greatest spells of all.’

‘You speak of sorcery,’ said Menreir quickly, throwing a cautioning look
at the apprentices. ‘Sorcery brings only two things: madness and death.
If you lack the will and application to be a mage, then you will
certainly not live long as a sorcerer. If Ellinithil or Celabreir falter
with pure magic, the spell simply fails. If one miscasts a sorcerous
incantation, the magic does not return to the winds. It must find a
place to live, in your body or your mind. Even when sorcery is used
successfully, it leaves a taint, on the world and in the spirit. It
corrupts one’s thoughts and stains the winds of magic. Do not even
consider using it.’

‘Tell me from where you have heard such things,’ said Thyriol. ‘Who has
put these thoughts in your mind?’

‘Oh, here and there,’ said Anamedion with a shrug and a slight smile.
‘One hears about the druchii sorcerers quite often if one actually
leaves the palace. I have heard that any sorcerer is a match for three
Sapherian mages in power.’

‘Then you have heard wrong,’ said Thyriol patiently. ‘The mastery of
magic is not about power. Any fool can pick up a sword and hack at a
lump of wood until he has kindling, but a true woodsman knows to use axe
and hatchet and knife. Sorcery is a blunt instrument, capable only of
destruction, not creation. Sorcery could not have built this citadel,
nor could sorcery have enchanted our fields to be rich with grain.
Sorcery burns and scars and leaves nothing behind.’

‘And yet Anlec was built with sorcery,’ countered Anamedion.

‘Anlec is sustained by sorcery, but it was built by Caledor Dragontamer,
who used only pure magic,’ Thyriol replied angrily.

He shot glances at the others in the room, searching for some sign that
they paid undue attention to Anamedion’s arguments. There was rumour,
whispered and incoherent, that some students, and even some mages, had
begun to experiment with sorcery. It was so hard for Thyriol to tell.
Dark Magic had been rising for decades, fuelled by the rituals and
sacrifices of the Naggarothi and their cultist allies. It polluted the
magical vortex of Ulthuan, twisting the Winds of Magic with its
presence.

They had found druchii sorcerers hidden in the wilder parts of Saphery,
in the foothills of the mountains, trying to teach their corrupted ways
to the misguided. Some of the sorcerers had been slain, others had fled,
forewarned of their discovery by fellow cultists. It was to protect the
young from this corruption that Thyriol had brought the most talented
Sapherians here, to learn from him and his most powerful mages. That
Anamedion brought talk of sorcery into the capital was a grave concern.
Saphethion, of all places, had to be free of the taint of Dark Magic,
for the corruption of the power in the citadel could herald victory for
the Naggarothi.

‘I am glad you have found us,’ Anamedion said with no hint of regret or
shame. ‘I have longed to shed our secrecy, but the others insisted on
this subterfuge.’

The mention of the other mages broke Thyriol’s focus and he took in the
rest of the faces, settling on the blood-daubed features of Illeanith.
This brought a fresh surge of anguish and he gave a choked gasp and
lurched to one side, saved from falling only by the burnt frame of the
doorway. He had been disappointed but not surprised by Anamedion’s
presence. Seeing Illeanith was one shock too many.

It was as if daggers had been plunged into Thyriol’s heart and gut, a
physical agony that writhed inside him, pulling away all sense and
reason. The mages who had come with Thyriol began to shout and hurl
accusations, but Thyriol heard nothing, just the arrhythmic thundering
of his heart and a distant wailing in his head. Through a veil of tears
and the waves of dismay welling up inside of him, Thyriol watched numbly
as the sorcerers drew away from the door, adding their own voices to the
cacophony.

‘Everyone but Anamedion, leave me,’ Thyriol commanded. ‘Menreir, I will
call for you when I am finished. We must discuss the latest messages
from King Caledor.’

The mage and students bowed their acquiescence and left silently.
Anamedion stood defiantly before the throne, arms crossed. Thyriol put
aside his anger and looked at his grandson with sympathetic eyes.

‘You are gifted, Anamedion,’ said the prince. ‘If you would but show a
little more patience, there is no limit to what you might achieve in
time.’

‘What is it that you are afraid of?’ countered Anamedion.

‘I am afraid of damnation,’ Thyriol replied earnestly, leaning forward.
‘You have heard the myths of sorcery, while I have seen it first-hand.
You think it is perhaps a quick way to achieve your goals, but you are
wrong. The path is just as long for the sorcerer as it is for the mage.
You think that Morathi and her ilk have not made terrible sacrifices, of
their spirit and their bodies, to gain the power they have? You think
that they simply wave a hand and destroy armies on a whim? No, they have
not and do not. Terrible bargains they have made, bargains with powers
we would all do better to avoid. Trust me, Anamedion, we call it Dark
Magic for good reason.’

Anamedion still looked unconvinced, but he changed his approach.

‘What good does it do us to spend a century learning spells when the
druchii march against us now?’ he said. ‘King Caledor needs us with his
armies, fighting the Naggarothi sorcerers. You speak of the future, but
unless we act now, there may be no future. For seven years I have
listened to the stories of horror, of war, engulfing Tiranoc and Chrace
and Ellyrion. Cothique and Eataine are under attack. Must the fields of
Saphery burn before you do something?’

Thyriol shook his head, fighting his frustration.

‘I would no more send lambs to fight a lion than I would pit the skills
of my students against Morathi’s coven,’ said the prince. ‘There are but
a dozen mages in all of Saphery that I would trust to fight the druchii
in battle, myself included.’

‘Then fight!’ Anamedion demanded, pacing towards the throne, fists
balled. ‘Caledor begs for your aid and you are deaf to his requests. Why
did you choose him as Phoenix King if you will not follow him?’

Thyriol glanced away for a moment, looking through the narrow arched
windows that surrounded the hall. He did not see the greying autumn
skies, his mind wandering to the ancient past. He saw a magic-blistered
battlefield, where daemons rampaged and thousands of elves died
screaming in agony. He saw the most powerful wizards of an age holding
back the tides of Chaos while the Dragontamer conjured his vortex.

His memories shifted, to a time more recent but no less painful. He saw
Naggarothi warriors, skin ruptured, hair flaming, falling from the
battlements of Anlec while he soared overhead atop the back of a
pegasus. Depraved cultists, dedicated to obscene sacrifice, wailed their
curses even as lightning from Thyriol’s staff crackled through their
bodies.

War brought nothing but evil, even when fought for a just cause. Shaking
his head to dismiss the waking nightmare, Thyriol returned his attention
to Anamedion, his heart heavy.

‘Your father thought the same, and now he is dead,’ Thyriol said
quietly.

‘And your cowardice makes his sacrifice in vain,’ Anamedion growled.
‘Perhaps it is not Dark Magic that you fear, but death. Has your life
lasted so long that you would protect it now at any cost?’

At this, Thyriol’s frayed temper finally snapped.

‘You accuse me of cowardice?’ he said, stalking from his throne towards
Anamedion, who stood his ground and returned the prince’s glare. ‘I
fought beside Aenarion and the Dragontamer, and never once flinched from
battle. Thirty years ago I fought beside Malekith when Anlec was
retaken. You have never seen war, and know nothing of its nature, so do
not accuse me of cowardice!’

‘And you throw back at me accusations that I cannot counter,’ Anamedion
replied, fists clenching and unclenching with exasperation. ‘You say I
do not know war, yet condemn me to idle away my years in this place,
closeted away from harm because you fear I will suffer the same fate as
my father! Do you have so little confidence in me?’

‘I do,’ said Thyriol. ‘You have your father’s willfulness and your
mother’s stubbornness. Why could you not be more like your younger
brother, Elathrinil? He is studious and attentive… and obedient.’

‘Elathrinil is diligent but dull,’ replied Anamedion with a scornful
laugh. ‘Another century or two and he may make an adequate mage, but
there is no greatness in him.’

‘Do not crave greatness,’ said Thyriol. ‘Many have been dashed upon the
cliffs of their own ambition. Do not repeat their mistakes.’

‘So says the ruling prince of Saphery, friend of Aenarion, last
surviving member of the First Council and greatest mage in Ulthuan,’
said Anamedion. ‘Maybe I have been wrong. It is not battle or death that
you fear, it is me! You are jealous of my talent, fearful that your own
reputation will be eclipsed by mine. Perhaps my star will rise higher
than yours while you still cling to this world with the last strength in
your fingers. You guard what you have gained and dare not risk anything.
You profess wisdom and insight, but actually you are selfish and
envious.’

‘Get out!’ roared Thyriol. Anamedion flinched as if struck. ‘Get out of
my sight! I will not have you in my presence again until you apologise
for these lies. You have done nothing today but proven to me that you
are unfit to rule Saphery. Think long and hard, Anamedion, about what
you want. Do not tarnish me with your vain ambitions. Go!’

Anamedion hesitated, his face showing a moment of contrition, but it
passed swiftly, replaced by a stare of keen loathing. With a wordless
snarl, he turned his back on his grandfather and strode from the room.

Thyriol stumbled back to his throne and almost fell into it, drained by
his outburst. He slumped there for a moment, thoughts reeling, ashamed
of his own anger. Righteousness contended with guilt, neither winning a
decisive victory. What if Anamedion was right? What if he really was
jealous of the youth’s prowess, knowing that his own existence was
waning fast?

Closing his eyes, Thyriol whispered a few mantras of focus and dismissed
his self-examination. The fault was not with the prince, but with his
grandchild. For decades he had known that there was something amiss with
Anamedion, but had turned a blind eye upon his deficiencies. Now that
Thyriol had finally given open voice to his doubts, and Anamedion
declared his own misgivings, perhaps the two of them could move on and
resolve their differences.

With a sigh, Thyriol straightened himself and sat in the throne
properly. Anamedion’s small rebellion was a distraction, one that
Thyriol could not deal with immediately. He had Caledor’s messenger
waiting, eager to return to the Phoenix King with Thyriol’s answer. The
world was being torn apart by war and bloodshed, and against that the
petulant protests and naïve philosophies of a grandson seemed
insignificant.

Thyriol twitched a finger and in the depths of the palace a silver bell
rang to announce that the prince of Saphery wished to be attended.

Anamedion felt the other sorcerers opening the portal they had created
for just this situation. The shadow at the back of their hiding place
deepened, merging with the shadows of a cave some distance from the
palace’s current location. Something seethed in the shadow’s depths, a
formless bulk shifting its weight just outside of mortal comprehension.

Hadryana and Meledir lunged through the portal without word, fearful of
Thyriol’s wrath. They were soon followed by the other students and
Alluthian, leaving only Illeanith and Anamedion.

‘Come!’ commanded his mother, grabbing him by the arm. Anamedion shook
free her grasp and looked at his grandfather.

Thyriol was a broken creature. Anamedion saw an elf near the end of his
years, frail and tired, his own misery seeping through every fibre of
his being. There was no fight left in him.

‘I am not ashamed,’ said Anamedion. ‘I am not afraid.’

‘We must leave!’ insisted Illeanith. Anamedion turned to her and pushed
her towards the shadow-portal.

‘Then go! I will send for you soon,’ he said. ‘This will not take long,
mother.’

Illeanith hesitated for a moment, torn between love of her son and fear
of her father. Fear won and she plunged through the tenebrous gateway,
disappearing into the dark fog.

When Anamedion returned his attention to Thyriol, he saw that the prince
had straightened and regained his composure. For a moment, doubt gnawed
at Anamedion. Perhaps he had misjudged the situation. Thyriol’s look
changed from one of horror to one of pity and this threw fuel onto the
fire of Anamedion’s anger. His momentary fear evaporated like the
illusion it was.

‘I will prove how weak you have become,’ said Anamedion.

‘Surrender, or suffer the consequences,’ growled Menreir, blue flames
dancing from his eyes.

‘Do not interfere!’ Thyriol told his mages, waving them back. The pity
drained from his face and was replaced by his usual calm expression. In
a way, it was more chilling than the prince’s anger. ‘I will deal with
this.’

Anamedion knew that he must strike first. He allowed the Dark Magic to
coil up through his body, leeching its power from where it lurked within
and around the Winds of Magic. He felt it crackling along his veins,
quickening his heart, setting his mind afire. Uttering a curse of Ereth
Khial, Anamedion threw forward his hand and a bolt of black lightning
leapt from his fingertips.

A moment from striking Thyriol, the spell burst into a shower of golden
dust that fluttered harmlessly to the bare stone floor.

Only now did Anamedion see the counterspells woven into his
grandfather’s robe. The sorcerer’s cruel smile faded. The prince’s body
was steeped in magic, subtle and layered. Dark Magic pulsed once more,
bolstering Anamedion’s confidence. Thyriol’s defences mattered not at
all; the wardings were many but thin, easily penetrated by the power
Anamedion could now wield.

The view was breathtaking from the wide balcony atop the Tower of
Alin-Haith, the vast panorama of Ulthuan laid out around the four mages.
To the south and north stretched the farms and gentle hills of Saphery,
bathed in the afternoon sun. To the west glittered the Inner Sea, barely
visible on the horizon. To the east the majestic peaks of the Anullii
Mountains rose from beyond the horizon, grey and purple and tipped with
white. Thyriol noted storm clouds gathering over the mountains to the
north, sensing within them the Dark Magic that had gathered in the
vortex over the past decades.

‘I am going to tell Caledor that I will not open the Tor Anroc gateway,’
the prince announced, not looking at his companions.

The three other wizards were Menreir, Alethin and Illeanith, the last
being Thyriol’s daughter, his only child. Thinking of her led the
prince’s thoughts back to Anamedion and he pushed them aside and turned
to face the others.

‘I cannot risk the druchii taking control of the gateway from the other
end,’ Thyriol explained.

The palace of Saphethion was more than a floating castle. It was able to
drift effortlessly through the skies because the magic woven into its
foundations placed it slightly apart from time and space. From the
outside the palace appeared beautiful and serene, but within there
existed a maze of halls and rooms, corridors and passages far larger
than could be contained within normal walls. Some of those rooms were
not even upon Saphethion itself, but lay in other cities: Lothern, Tor
Yvresse, Montieth and others. Most importantly, one of the isle-spanning
gateways led to Tor Anroc, currently occupied by the army of Nagarythe.

As soon as he had found out that the city had fallen into the hands of
the druchii, Thyriol had closed the gate, putting its enchantments into
stasis. Now the Phoenix King wanted Thyriol to reopen the gate so that
he might send agents into Tor Anroc, perhaps even an army.

‘Caledor’s plan has much merit, father,’ said Illeanith. ‘Surprise would
be total. It is unlikely that the druchii are even aware of the
gateway’s existence, for none of them have ever used it.’

‘I wish to keep it that way,’ said Thyriol. ‘The wards upon the gate can
resist the attentions of any normal druchii sorcerer, but I would rather
not test their strength against the magic of Morathi. Even the knowledge
that such gateways can exist would be dangerous, for I have no doubt
that she would find some means to create her own. On a more mundane
point, I cannot make the gate work only one way. Once it is open, the
druchii can use it to enter Saphethion, and that puts us all at risk.’

‘The Phoenix King will be disappointed, lord,’ said Menreir.

‘The Phoenix King will be angry,’ Thyriol corrected him. ‘Yet it is not
the first time I have refused him.’

‘I am not so sure that the druchii are still unaware of the gateways,
prince,’ said Alethin. ‘There are few that can be trusted these days
with any secret, and I am sure that there are Sapherians who once served
in the palace now in the employ of the cults, or at least sympathetic to
their cause. Even within the palace we have found texts smuggled in by
agents of the druchii to sow confusion and recruit support.’

‘That gives me even more reason to be cautious,’ said Thyriol, leaning
his back against the parapet. ‘Tor Anroc is shrouded in shadow,
protected from our augurs and divinations. Perhaps the druchii have
discovered the gateway and guard it, or even now work to unravel its
secrets. The moment it is opened, it will be like a white flare in the
mind of Morathi – I cannot hide such magic from her scrying.’

‘Forgive me, prince, but to what end do you tell us this?’ said Menreir.
‘If your mind is set, simply send the messenger back to Caledor. We are
no council to give our approval.’

Thyriol was taken aback by the question, for the answer seemed plain
enough to him.

‘I had hoped that you might have some argument to change my mind,’ he
said. Sighing, he cast his gaze back towards the mountains and when he
continued his voice was quiet, wistful. ‘I have lived a long, long time.
I have known the heights of happiness, and plunged into the depths of
despair. Even when the daemons bayed at the walls of Anlec and the night
lasted an eternity, I had hope. Now? Now I can see no hope, for there
can be no victory when elves fight other elves. I wish an attack on Tor
Anroc, an assault on Anlec, could end this war, but there is no such
simple ploy. Not armed force or great magic will end this conflict. We
are at war with ourselves and the only peace that can last must come
from within us.’

‘Do not do this,’ Thyriol warned.

‘You are in no position to give me commands,’ snapped Anamedion. A sword
of black flame appeared in his fist and he leapt forwards to strike.
Menreir stepped in the way, out of instinct to save the prince, and the
ethereal blade passed through his chest. In moments the mage’s body
disintegrated into a falling cloud of grey ash.

Anamedion swung back-handed at Thyriol, but a shimmering shield of
silver energy appeared on the mage’s arm and the flaming blade
evaporated into a wisp of smoke at its touch.

‘You cannot control the power needed to defeat me,’ Thyriol said. He was
already breathing heavily, and Anamedion heard the words as nothing but
an empty boast.

Dispelling the warding that surrounded the room, Anamedion reached out
further into the winds of magic, drawing in more and more dark power. A
black cloud enveloped him, swirling and churning with its own life,
flashes and glitters in its depths. He urged the cloud forward and for a
moment it engulfed Thyriol, cloying and choking.

A white light appeared at the cloud’s centre and the magic boiled away,
revealing Thyriol unharmed, glowing from within. Anamedion could see
that his grandfather’s pull on the winds of magic was becoming fitful
and saw a chance to finish him. Taking a deep breath Anamedion reached
out as far as he could, a surge of sorcery pouring into his body and
mind.

Thyriol felt a hand upon his back and turned his head to see Illeanith
next to him.

‘Anamedion told me that you have banished him from your presence,’ she
said. ‘He is stubborn, but he is also brave and strong and willing to
prove himself. Please end this dispute. Do not make me choose between my
father and my son.’

‘There are no words that will lift the veil of a mother’s love for her
son,’ replied the prince.

‘You think me blind to my son’s faults?’ snapped Illeanith, stepping
back. ‘Perhaps I see more than you think, prince. Other matters are
always more important to you. For over a thousand years you have lived
in the mystical realm; you no longer remember what it is to be flesh and
blood. I think that a part of you was trapped with the other mages on
the Isle of the Dead, a part of your spirit if not your body. Anamedion
has not seen the things you have seen, and you make no attempt to show
them to him. You think that you guard him against danger, but that is no
way to prepare him for princehood. He must learn who he is, to know his
own mind. He is not you, father, he is himself, and you must accept
that.’

Illeanith glanced at the other two mages with an apologetic look and
then disappeared down the steps from the balcony.

‘I miss her mother,’ sighed Thyriol, leaning over the wall to peer down
at the courtyard of the palace where armour-clad guards drilled in
disciplined lines of silver and gold. ‘She helped me remember how to
stay in this world. Maybe it is time I moved on, let slip this fragile
grip that I have kept these last hundred years. I wish I had died in
peace, like Miranith. One should not be born in war and die in war…’

The other two mages remained silent as Thyriol’s words drifted into a
whisper, knowing that Thyriol was talking to himself, no longer aware of
their presence. They exchanged a knowing, worried glance and followed
Illeanith from the tower, each fearful of their prince’s deterioration.

‘Sorcery is not an end in itself, it is just a means,’ said Anamedion.
‘It need not be evil.’

‘The means can corrupt the end,’ replied Thyriol quietly, his hoarse
whisper further proof of his infirmity. ‘Just because we can do a thing,
it is not right that we should do a thing.’

‘Nonsense,’ spat Anamedion, unleashing his next spell. Flames of purple
and blue roared from his hands, lapping at Thyriol. The ancient mage
writhed under its power, sparks of gold and green magic bursting from
him as he deflected the worst of the spell, though it still brought him
to one knee. ‘You’ll have to kill me to prove it!’

‘I will not kill my own kin,’ wheezed Thyriol.

‘I will,’ said Anamedion with a glint in his eye.

Anamedion could feel only Dark Magic in the chamber and knew that the
prince’s resistance was all but over. All he needed was another
overwhelming attack and this would be finished. He would become prince
of Saphery as was his right, and they would take the war to the
Naggarothi.

Grasping the fetish at his throat, the rune-carved knuckle bones burning
his palm, Anamedion incanted words of power, feasting on the sorcery
that was now roiling within every part of his body. He visualised a
monstrous dragon, drew it in the air with his mind’s eye. He saw its
ebon fangs and the black fire that flickered from its mouth. Thyriol
attempted a dispel, directing what little remained of the winds of
magic, trying to unpick the enchantment being woven by Anamedion.

Anamedion drew on more Dark Magic, swamping the counterspell with power.
He focused all his thoughts on the spell, as Thyriol had once warned him
he must. He had no time to appreciate the irony, all his mind was bent
on the conjuration. He could see the shimmering scales and the veins on
the membranes of the dragon’s wings. The apparition started to form
before Anamedion, growing more real with every passing heartbeat.

In a moment the dragon-spell would engulf Thyriol, crushing the last
breath from his body.

Thyriol waited patiently in the Hall of Stars, gazing up at the window
at the centre of the hall’s ceiling. It showed a starry sky, though
outside the palace it was not yet noon. The scene was of the night when
the hall had been built, the auspicious constellations and alignments
captured for all eternity by magic. Thyriol had come here countless
times to gaze at the beauty of the heavens and knew every sparkling star
as well as he knew himself.

A delicate cough from the doorway attracted Thyriol’s attention. Menreir
stood just inside the hall, a cluster of fellow mages behind him and a
worried-looking servant at his side.

‘We cannot find Anamedion,’ said Menreir. ‘Also, Illeanith, Hadryana,
Alluthian and Meledir are missing, along with half a dozen of the
students.’

Thyriol took this news without comment. The prince closed his eyes and
felt Saphethion around him. He knew every stone of the palace, the magic
that seeped within the mortar, the flow of energy that bound every
stone. The golden needle pulsed rhythmically at its centre and the winds
of magic coiled and looped around the corridors and halls. He could feel
every living creature too, each a distinctive eddy in the winds of
magic. It would not take long to locate his grandson.

But it was not Anamedion that Thyriol found first. In a chamber beneath
the Mausoleum of the Dawn, there was a strange whirl of mystical power.
It flowed around the room and not through it, masking whatever was
within: a warding spell, one that Thyriol had not conjured. It was
subtle, just the slightest disturbance in the normal flow. Only Thyriol,
who had created every spell and charm that sustained Saphethion, would
have noticed the anomaly.

‘Come with me,’ he commanded the mages as he pushed through the group.
He showed no outward sign of vexation, but Thyriol’s stomach had
lurched. Mages were free to use their magic in the palace, why would one
seek to hide their conjurations? He suspected sorcery. Despite his
reasons for being in the Hall of Stars, this was more pressing than his
division with Anamedion. His grandson would have to wait a while longer
for their reconciliation.

Thyriol whispered something, almost bent double, his eyes fixed on his
grandson. Anamedion did not hear what the prince had said. Was it some
final counterspell? Perhaps an admission of wrong? A plea for mercy?

For the moment Anamedion wondered what Thyriol had said, his mind
strayed from the spell. The distraction lasted only a heartbeat but it
was too late. The Dark Magic churning inside Anamedion slipped from his
grasp. He struggled to control it, but it wriggled from his mind,
coiling into his heart, flooding his lungs. Choking and gasping,
Anamedion swayed as his veins crackled with power and his eyes melted.
He tried to wail but only black flames erupted from his burning throat.
The pain was unbearable, every part of his body and mind shrieked
silently as the sorcery consumed him.

With a last spasm, Anamedion collapsed, his body shrivelling and
blackening. With a dry thump, his corpse hit the ground, wisps of thick
smoke issuing from his empty eye sockets.

Thyriol knelt down beside the remains of his grandson. For the moment he
felt nothing, but he knew he would grieve later. He would feel the guilt
of what he had done, though it had been unavoidable. Thoughts of grief
recalled the death of Menreir, his oldest friend. Thyriol had barely
noticed his destruction, so engrossed had he been in his duel with
Anamedion. Another link to the past taken away; another piece of the
future destroyed.

‘What did you whisper?’ asked Urian, his eyes fixed upon the contorted
remnants of Anamedion. ‘Some dispel of your own creation?’

Thyriol shook his head sadly at the suggestion.

‘I cast no spell,’ he replied. ‘I merely whispered the name of his
grandmother. His lack of focus killed him.’

Thyriol stood and faced the mages clustered around the blackened
doorway. His expression hardened.

‘Anamedion was young, and stupid, and ignored my warnings,’ said the
prince. ‘Illeanith and the other sorcerers will not be so easy to
defeat. There will be more of them than we have seen. The war has
finally come to Saphery.’
