
FIVE 

The Cult Grows


Letters and messengers were sent ahead of the army to announce the
homecoming of Malekith’s faithful warriors. Hellebron and Lirieth wrote
a letter to their father, insisting that he organise suitable
celebrations for their triumphant return. Though they did not tell him
of what had happened, they proudly informed Alandrian that their names
were being lauded throughout the army, and that he should demonstrate
his pride by granting the army the grandest honours and celebrations he
could devise.

Hellebron added her own private message, showering her father with
praise and thanks for his support. She told him that things would change
in Athel Toralien when she returned, and that soon there would be no elf
who doubted his rule of the city. He would emerge from Malekith’s
shadow, a great prince in his own right, and his name would be forever
marked upon the chronicles of the Naggarothi.

When the heralds returned, they brought word from Alandrian. Hellebron
read with glee that there was much excitement in the city, stirred up by
Prince Malriad and the other nobles. Alandrian promised that there would
be a gala reception for his daughters and that no expense would be
spared in celebrating the success of the army.

So it was with considerable anticipation that Hellebron woke on the
morning the army was due to enter the city. While Lirieth still
slumbered, Hellebron stepped from their tent. The air was chill, the sun
not yet above the horizon. Torches and braziers illuminated the long
rows of pavilions, the stillness only broken by the clinking of armour
as the guard patrols walked their rounds.

To the north, less than half a day’s march away, Athel Toralien waited
for her. Hellebron walked to the edge of the camp, her cloak wrapped
about her, bare feet stepping lightly on the dwarf-built road along
which the army was camped.

A stream glittered ahead, lit by silver lanterns lining a wide bridge.
Hellebron walked to the edge of the water and looked down into the
slow-running rill. She could see little of her face, her reflection
distorted. Her hair fell in long braids, her face narrow, pale, nicked
here and there by slender scars from tiny wounds she had inflicted upon
herself in the deepest throes of the Khainite rituals.

She threw off her cloak and stripped away her short dress. Sliding into
the water, she gave a girlish giggle as the cold enveloped her,
prickling her skin. Closing her eyes, she ducked beneath the water,
immersing herself completely, the mud of the bottom pushing up between
her toes as the gentle current caressed her flesh.

She turned onto her back, still submerged, and looked up through the
water. The light of the lamps swayed and flowed above her, so that it
felt like she was swimming in starlight. She held up her hands, reaching
towards the shimmering light; hands that had shed so much blood. Her
slender fingers had delved into the innards of sacrifices beyond
counting, each now a blur in her mind, her memory fogged by repetition
and intoxication.

Hellebron drifted, rising to the surface. With gentle motions, she
steered herself back towards the bank, enjoying the utter calm. She knew
that the moment she set foot back in Athel Toralien, her true grasp for
power would begin. There would be many who would see her as a threat,
and just as she had sacrificed Lethruis for her goals, there would, in
time, be those amongst her followers who would see Hellebron as the
opposition.

Many times over the years of subservience and frustration, Hellebron had
questioned her ambition and the hardships it would entail. Such doubts
had always been short-lived, dismissed with the start of the next day.

Floating serenely in the river, she asked herself a subtly different
question: was this what she really wanted? There would be more pain to
come, more sacrifice, of that she was sure. If her commitment to this
life was not total, she would falter.

There was Lirieth to consider as well. She was part of the growing
legend, and Hellebron knew that her sister would do anything for her.
Where Hellebron led, she would follow, out of love and duty. Lirieth had
embraced Hellebron’s hunger, taken it as her own, given up her own life
so that Hellebron would thrive. Hellebron could not abandon her sister
now; could not ask her to step aside to give Hellebron centre stage. Was
it her right to make this decision for her sister, to embroil Lirieth in
this destiny without offering her a chance to forge a different path?

The sun was creeping into the sky, lighting the broken cloud with red
and purple. Sounds came from the stirring camp as more of the army
awoke.

Soon Hellebron would be the centre of the storm, caught in the work of
the preparations for the march, the turmoil of the army’s homecoming,
and whatever lay beyond. This was her last chance, her very last chance,
to think clearly about what she wanted.

Immediately Hellebron’s thoughts went back to Morathi, the sneer on the
queen’s face, the scorn in her voice. The calm seeped away through the
water, leaving Hellebron boiling with indignation; as enraged and
offended as when she had stepped out of Morathi’s chambers.

She did not want to please Morathi, nor did she want to impress Morathi.
Hellebron realised that it was not recognition or approval that she
sought; this life she had chosen went far beyond that. Hellebron wanted
Morathi to know the hurt she had heaped – probably knowingly – upon her.
Morathi would rue her arrogance and be forced to concede Hellebron’s
greatness.

All other thoughts vanished with this conclusion. Nothing else mattered.
Khaine would be her key to power, her means to rise up and stare Morathi
in the eye without shame. Anything less would be an abject failure; an
admittance that Morathi had been right to dismiss her so contemptuously.
Never again would Hellebron feel so small, so insignificant.

Hellebron exploded out of the water, full of vigour. Throwing on her
clothes, she stalked back to the camp, mind brimming over with plans.
Doubt was for the weak. She would rise to the heights of power or she
would die trying; anything less would be a betrayal of herself, her
sister and Khaine.

Despite the assertions in Prince Alandrian’s letter, the people of Athel
Toralien were less than enthusiastic about the return of Malriad and his
army. The garrison of the city was turned out to give full honours,
lining the walls and gate towers with banners and clarions to mark the
return of the Naggarothi, but there were no elves lining the road to the
city, no festivals of dancing and song to welcome the army home.

Flanking Malriad, Hellebron and Lirieth passed through the shadow of the
main gatehouse into the square beyond. There were several hundred elves
dressed in their fineries waiting, holding flowers and gifts; most of
them the families of the returning warriors. Children dashed from the
crowd to greet their fathers, while wives, mothers and fathers looked on
with stern pride.

When all had marched into the city, formed up in their companies,
Alandrian appeared. A wooden stage had been built at the eastern edge of
the square, hung with bright garlands and silver chains. The early
afternoon sun blazing down, the ruler of Athel Toralien strode to the
middle of the podium, wearing his finest armour, a cloak of pure black
trailing from his shoulders.

It was with a strange shock that Hellebron remembered her father had not
always been a civic ruler; he had fought to save this city from the orcs
and had marched with Malekith to scour the lands of evil. Alandrian had
been present the first time the Naggarothi had met the dwarfs. She had
heard the stories growing up, but it had never seemed important to her.
Now he was there, wearing the silver-and-gold mail he had worn during
those days of adventure and glory. For a moment she forgot her annoyance
at the lack-lustre reception and revelled in a moment’s pride for her
father.

‘By the grace of the gods, our noble warriors are returned to us,’
declared Alandrian. ‘You are the embodiment of what is great about the
Naggarothi and are the embodiment of Nagarythe’s finest traditions. The
day we forget the travails that our brave soldiers face, the day we
discard our duty to the brave and the fierce, is the day we give up the
right to call ourselves Naggarothi.’

A few other local dignitaries trooped onto the stage and declaimed a few
vague welcomes and platitudes. Though the rigid ranks of warriors
listened attentively, Hellebron could sense their disappointment, and
knew that it reflected badly upon her. To keep her followers intrigued
on the long march home, Hellebron had regaled them with promises of the
fanfares and celebrations that awaited them. Now her promises had proved
to be empty and Hellebron fumed; partly at herself for her naiveté,
mostly at her father for his empty assurances.

Eventually the dreary welcoming ceremony concluded. As soon as the
trumpets sounded the dismissal, the companies broke ranks and flooded
into the rest of the city, gathering up such family and friends as
awaited them.

Hellebron took a step towards the stage but stopped, feeling a hand on
her arm. Lirieth pulled Hellebron close, darting glances towards the
nobles assembled on the stage.

‘Do nothing rash, my sister,’ warned Lirieth.

‘It is an insult,’ said Hellebron. ‘Of all people, father should have
known how much this meant to us. It is simply unacceptable.’

Hellebron moved to walk away but Lirieth’s grip tightened, holding her
back.

‘We are back in civilised lands, sister,’ she said. ‘Tread carefully.
All is not lost. Do not let your anger compound this sorry situation.’

Lirieth delved a hand into a small pouch at her belt and pulled out a
few grey leaves.

‘Dreamwood,’ she said. ‘Chew a few, it will help you to calm down.’

Hellebron eyed the sedating herb for a moment, uncertain. She liked her
anger, it gave her purpose, gave her strength. Seeing the imploring look
in her sister’s eyes, knowing despite her frustration that Lirieth was
right, Hellebron snatched up the leaves and put them into her mouth. She
crushed them relentlessly between her teeth, until their soothing effect
spread through her body. Her limbs lightened and her breathing slowed.
The afternoon light grew dimmer, the white of Athel Toralien’s buildings
softer.

The mellowing effect took the edge off Hellebron’s anger, but she could
not dismiss her annoyance entirely. Linking arms with Lirieth, she
forced herself to pace serenely to where her father was standing at the
bottom of the steps leading up to the stage. Already retainers were
taking down the garlands and banners and carpenters were dismantling the
podium.

Alandrian’s first look was full of apology; aided by the dreamwood,
Hellebron felt her ire ebb away a little further. She took her father’s
offered hand, kissed the palm and then stepped up to give him a fulsome
embrace. Lirieth did the same.

‘Circumstance has thwarted us,’ said Alandrian, reaching his arms across
the shoulders of his daughters, pulling them close. ‘The harvest is
coming in and a trade convoy to Galthyr is setting off tomorrow. I am
afraid that the purses of the people have more influence than I do at
such times.’

Alandrian steered them towards the road leading to the north of the
city, where the family palace sat on the highest hill above the harbour.
Hellebron could see the red-tiled roof of the central tower above the
manses and villas of the noble quarter.

‘All is not in vain, though,’ the prince continued, his tone lighter.
‘Tonight you will be hostesses of the most glittering gala Athel
Toralien has seen in many years. All the great and the rich will be
coming, many of them old friends of yours.’

Hellebron bit back a retort; this was not some birthday to be celebrated
with wine and song, but a decisive moment in the history of the city.
The heralds should be crying the news from every street corner, the
poets singing verses of the glories to come.

She felt Lirieth’s hand clasp hers behind Alandrian’s back and was
reassured by the touch. Twenty years they had worked towards that
moment; they could afford to wait a little longer.

‘That sounds wonderful, father,’ said Hellebron. ‘I am sure we will make
a lasting impression.’

The festivities took place in the warm autumnal evening, spread
throughout the gardens and courtyards surrounding the villa and towers
of Prince Alandrian. Several dozen of the most influential citizens of
Athel Toralien were there, in all their finery and jewels. Red-robed
servants moved through the mingling elves with platters of exquisitely
prepared food from across Elthin Arvan, and wine from the vineyards
around the city. Late-flowering plants wreathed the arches and gateways
linking the patios, terraces and lawns, filling the air with a heady
melange of scents.

The prince wore a short-sleeved, black robe woven from local wool, and a
golden necklace of dwarf design, on which hung a ruby mined from the
mountains to the south. The food was served upon lacquered platters of
wood from the surrounding forests, the wine drunk from porcelain goblets
fashioned in the crafts quarter of the city. Not a grain, grape or
blossom had come from Ulthuan.

It was a finely balanced display by Alandrian; not only a display of his
personal wealth and influence, but a reminder of the strength of the
colonies, and Athel Toralien in particular. Its message was one of
shared fate and it was not lost on the attending dignitaries. The gossip
was of the colonies, Ulthuan barely mentioned except in passing remark.
Many of the elves had never been to their home isle; first- and
second-generation colonists who thought themselves equally Naggarothi
and Toralii.

Hellebron entered the social fray with Lirieth by her side. The sisters
were identically clad, wearing long dresses of crimson silk, cut to
expose arms, legs and chests, bordering on the improper. Their hair was
outlandishly styled, dyed to match their clothes, outrageously braided
and spiked, held in place with skull-headed pins. Their lips were
coloured deep red, their eyes shadowed with black, their pale flesh
whitened further to create a mask-like appearance. Each wore a rune of
Khaine fashioned in a silver pendant, and heavy armbands inscribed with
dedications to the Lord of Murder.

As if this were not cause enough for comment, Hellebron and Lirieth were
armed. While a few of the princes present wore sheathed swords, the twin
curved daggers in the belts of the sisters were highly unorthodox.

The chatter died away as the two of them strolled arm-in-arm down the
steps into the courtyard outside their chambers. Stillness reigned for a
moment, the quiet broken only by the wind rustling the leaves of the ivy
on the walls and scattered, astonished gasps. Hellebron kept her
expression placid even as her heart leapt with the thrill of so much
attention. Not even Morathi would have drawn away the eyes of the
onlookers.

In a carefully orchestrated display, Liannin emerged from the knot of
servants and approached the sisters with a tray carrying two crystal
goblets filled with what looked to be a dark red wine. Hellebron took
one and handed it to Lirieth before raising the other to her lips.

The sisters drank in unison, staining their lips darker still. They
emptied the goblets and placed them back on the tray, the remains of
their contents sticking thickly to the crystal. Hellebron delicately
wiped a droplet from the corner of her mouth and smiled at the staring
guests.

All were staring with horror and distaste as they realised that the
goblets contained not wine, but blood. Hellebron noted with particular
pleasure the consternation on the faces of many of the city’s high
priests and priestesses. No doubt rumour of the sisters’ exploits had
spread through the city as the soldiers of the army had returned to
their homes. The leaders of Athel Toralien’s many sects were gathered
together, whispering fiercely to one another.

It was Alairiath, high priestess of Anath Raema that stepped forward as
spokesperson. Her hair was a carefully managed mane of wild blonde,
woven through with the small bones of animals. She wore many necklaces
of fangs and claws from a variety of beasts, hung upon threads of sinew.
Her robe was stitched together from dozens of pelts, her cloak a single
shaggy mass of bear fur. She carried a small ornamental spear, and the
golden buckle of her broad belt was moulded in the likeness of a
snarling wolf in profile.

The priestess’s eyes flitted around the crowd, numbers growing as more
guests were drawn in from the other gardens. She glanced back once at
her peers, seeking encouragement, and stopped a few steps from the
sisters.

‘Where is Lethruis, the anointed of Khaine?’ Alairiath tried to speak
boldly, but Hellebron detected a tremor of apprehension and noticed that
the priestess dedicated to the Merciless Huntress refused to meet her
gaze.

‘We killed the traitor,’ said Lirieth. A shocked ripple spread through
the crowd.

‘He failed Khaine, and for that he was punished,’ said Hellebron.

‘His heart was cut out and his body consigned to the ashes of infamy,’
Lirieth continued with the lilt of a laugh in her voice.

Alairiath opened her mouth twice without saying anything.

‘We are the Brides of Khaine,’ said Hellebron. ‘The Prince of Slaughter
speaks through us, and has made His displeasure known. Khaine will no
longer be the outcast, shunned by those who owe their lives to His
continued indulgences.’

‘You murdered Lethruis? This is unacceptable.’ This came from Melthis,
leader of the sect dedicated to Nethu, the warden of the city’s
mausoleums and tombs. He wrung his layers of white robes and looked at
Hellebron and Lirieth with pleading eyes. ‘You should not have destroyed
his body!’

Hellebron grinned, showing the flecks of blood staining her bright
teeth.

‘Lethruis lived by the power of Khaine, why should he not die by the
same?’ she said. ‘He was Khaine’s own, spirit and body, and to Khaine we
sent both.’

‘We do not come here with threats,’ said Lirieth, addressing all of the
gathered elves. ‘We seek only parity, and the freedom to practise our
worship with the same understanding that the rest of you enjoy. Long
have we treated Khaine poorly, the patron of Aenarion, founder of
Nagarythe, greatest of all elves.’

‘No longer,’ continued Hellebron. ‘Tomorrow we shall divine a suitable
aspect for a new shrine to the Bloody-Handed One and in time all will be
able to pay their respects to the god who delivered us from disaster.’

‘This will not be tolerated,’ snapped Khelthion, high priest of Ereth
Khial.

As leader of the Cult of the Dead, paying homage to the bleak goddess
that held the power of life and death, Khelthion was the unspoken leader
of all the cults. Many believed he could call upon his patron to unleash
the Rephallim, bodiless spirits that could bring nightmares and even
tear an elf’s life from a sleeping victim. The rich paid the sect
handsomely to pass and receive messages from the deceased, and to
maintain the expensive sarcophagi in the Halls of the Eternal Sleep
where their ancestors lay.

‘Who are you to speak of intolerance?’ All eyes turned to Prince
Alandrian, who stepped up beside Lirieth, a scowl creasing his face. ‘Do
not forget the lean times that existed under the rule of Prince
Malekith. Was it not I that welcomed you to our city, so that our people
might be at peace with their gods, that Athel Toralien would know
prosperity, and so that you could spread your messages of worship and
placation? I have been a patron to you all, and I will treat the
dedication of my daughters with no less respect. Or would you have it
that I withdraw my support, cast you all from the city to peddle your
prayers and ceremonies in the farms and wild lands?’

‘It is not wise to offend the cytharai,’ said Khelthion, striding up to
Alandrian. ‘Their ways are subtle and their displeasure brings doom to
mortals.’

As quick as a flash, Hellebron was next to the high priest, her curved
dagger under his chin, the point pricking at his throat.

‘Khaine is not subtle in His displeasure,’ she purred. ‘Yet He is the
most easily vexed of the gods and is not slow to anger. If you laud
Ereth Khial so highly, perhaps you would not be averse to meeting Her
soon?’

‘You wouldn’t dare.’ Khelthion’s assurance was absolute as he stared
sideways into Hellebron’s eyes. His arrogance reminded her of Morathi.

‘Do not test me,’ said Hellebron.

‘It is one thing to murder Lethruis amidst an army of warriors, it is
another to kill a priest in cold blood in full view of so many
witnesses, in the heart of our city.’

‘It is,’ said Hellebron, drawing the dagger across the high priest’s
throat. ‘This is sweeter still.’

Blood spilled onto the white paving, splashing Hellebron’s bare feet.
She pushed Khelthion towards Lirieth, who deftly caught the dying elf.
Lirieth glanced at her sister, received a nod of approval and plunged
one of her daggers into Khelthion’s chest. Alandrian took a step towards
his daughters but was halted by a quick glance from Hellebron. He turned
his attention to the other elves and saw what she saw: utter horror and
deep fear. Yet here and there amongst the crowd of faces were those that
looked on with appreciation, perhaps glad to be rid of Khelthion’s
domination.

‘Do something!’ Hellebron did not see who made the demand, but there
were scattered whispers of assent.

‘Do what?’ said Alandrian. ‘You think that no elf has ever died by the
hand of another? Khaine will take what is His. This is a religious
matter; it is no concern of mine.’

Ashen-faced servants arrived to take away Khelthion’s corpse but
Hellebron stopped them.

‘He has been taken by Khaine,’ she said. ‘Not for poor Khelthion the
unending twilight of Mirai. It is his privilege to join King Aenarion
and the other sons of Ulthuan who have laid down their lives in blood.’

Lirieth took up the line.

‘The fires will send his spirit into the next world,’ she said. ‘This
very night, you are all invited to witness this miracle of
transformation. At midnight the flames will be lit and you shall see the
splendour and majesty of Khaine’s work.’

Hellebron was taken aback by the number of elves that attended the
sacrificial cremation of Khelthion’s remains. Many were elves involved
with the other sects, who glared with disapproval behind their leaders.
There were several hundred soldiers and a handful of captains who had
fought alongside Hellebron and Lirieth; notably Prince Malriad came
along with many of his household.

And there were the ordinary people of Athel Toralien, morbidly intrigued
by this sudden turn of events. While the ruling princes, chief
merchants, fleet-owners and sect leaders were focussed upon the future
of Athel Toralien, the rest of its citizens still listened intently for
news from Ulthuan; such news left even the most insular elf aware that
Nagarythe was in the throes of a religious renaissance under the rule of
Morathi. There had been a small but noticeable influx of new colonists
in the past few years, with whispered tales of conflicts with cults and
persecution by zealots of all persuasions.

It was with a mixed air of expectancy and apprehension that Athel
Toralien witnessed the renewed energy of Khaine’s followers. Hellebron
kept the ritual brief, speaking of the blood of birth, and of the
rebirth of Khaine’s power. Though ignorant of developments in Ulthuan,
she spoke of a time when the elves would again need to look to their
blades; the Chaos Daemons were caged but not defeated and who could say
what threat the barbaric humans might present in the future?

Khelthion’s body was cut apart with all the gory spectacle Hellebron
could muster. She saw in the crowd those elves who were feeling for the
first time the same sense of fascination she had experienced. This was
not a dirge-laden ceremony of mourning presided over by the adepts of
Ereth Khial; it was a vital, invigorating celebration of life and death,
of the thin bladestroke that separates the two; a testament to the
frailty of the mortal form.

Though many of the audience departed as the ceremony reached its climax,
and no few that remained were aghast at what they saw, Hellebron and
Lirieth kept the crowd rapt with theatrics and masterful oration.
Throughout was the promise that Khaine would give the elves the strength
to protect themselves; and the threat that Khaine would also find those
who failed to give Him due homage.

The power of the crowd was a phenomenon that had always amazed
Hellebron. As the chants to Khaine echoed along the streets from the
mouths of soldiers and mariners, captains and traders, princes and
scholars, Hellebron marvelled at the sway that popularity and vogue had
upon her fellow elves. In the thick of battle, it had been the weight of
the many that prevailed, and this was no less true of the ongoing
tussles for power that existed in Naggarothi society.

When the flames were dying and the last of the crowd had returned to
their homes – sated or terrified, it did not matter – Hellebron remained
with Lirieth and her father.

‘It is a dangerous thing that you seek to wield,’ said Alandrian, as
Lirieth and Hellebron washed themselves of the stains of sacrifice. ‘You
are my daughters and I will do all in my power to further your cause. Be
warned, there are some things I cannot protect you against: jealousy,
fear and ambition will create many enemies for you.’

‘Rest easy, father,’ said Hellebron. ‘Tonight is but a beginning, a
first step. The people will learn that Khaine’s way is the straight
path, and its rewards come swiftly.’

‘I saw it tonight, in the eyes of many that watched,’ said Lirieth.
‘There were those who did not see the body of Khelthion, but instead the
dismembered corpse of another; a rival, a lover who spurned them, a
spoiled sibling. We will have enemies, but Khaine will provide the cure
for many ills that others seek to expunge from their lives and that will
bring even more allies.’

Alandrian said nothing for a moment. He looked at his two daughters and
down at the puddle of blood-tinged water spreading across the cobbles.

‘You cannot let loose this beast,’ he said quietly. ‘You must keep it on
a tight rein, or it will turn and devour all of us.’

‘Our hands, and yours, will be firm upon the leash, father,’ said
Hellebron. ‘The other sects are weak, their leaders apathetic. They have
practised their rites and yet the people of Athel Toralien still have
their share of woes and disappointments. The time is nigh for a new wind
to sweep the city clean, and the people will see the truth for what it
is.’

Hellebron’s confident predictions were borne out over the following
days. Alone or in small groups, the elves of the city visited the
sisters at their new shrine. They left gifts of gems and gold and
silver, and promises of support for Khaine and his burgeoning cult. Some
came to Hellebron and Lirieth with their complaints, accusing rivals in
business, society and love of being enemies of Khaine and traitors to
Nagarythe.

Within a few days, Hellebron already had a sound idea of who were her
greatest opponents. Chief amongst them were the other sect leaders and
their most dedicated acolytes. There was gossip of a backlash, of the
other cults combining forces to show the upstarts their real place in
society. Hellebron scorned such threats and assured her new followers
that Khaine gave his blessings to those who took power for themselves.
She reminded her growing number of disciples that it had been Aenarion
who had chosen to take up the Sword of Khaine and it was through action,
not words, that the Naggarothi would grow to even greater heights of
power and wealth. Hers were the words of the future, not the past.

Of greater concern was the news of one particular critic, who had been
an outspoken opponent to the rise of all the sects and who had now
turned her ire on Hellebron and Lirieth.

Her name was Mirieth, and she was their mother.

She had been estranged from the family for many years, and the sisters’
decision to leave Athel Toralien had been the final divide between them
and their mother. For more than twenty years they had not spoken, to
each other or about each other. Mirieth was now speaking against the
cult of Khaine and sending letters to all the nobles of Athel Toralien.
There was even rumour that Mirieth would despatch messages to the other
cities of Elthin Arvan, to enlist the aid of princes from other
kingdoms.

‘Let her write her indignant letters,’ Hellebron said in reply to
Lirieth’s concerns. Always the younger of the two had reserved some
fondness for their mother, though Mirieth had been dead in Hellebron’s
heart for many years. ‘Her pleas will fall on deaf ears.’

‘But her family is powerful in Nagarythe, sister,’ said Lirieth. ‘Her
brother is one of Morathi’s favourites and her uncle a powerful prince.
Father’s split from mother has made him unpopular in many circles and
this may be the excuse his enemies need to crush him. This is what he
meant when he warned against the course we are taking.’

Hellebron stared at her sister with annoyance.

‘Do you have doubts?’ she said. ‘Do you wish to go back on our oaths to
Khaine, on the promises we made to ourselves?’

‘Not at all, sister,’ said Lirieth. ‘The hand of mother’s family may be
strong, but its reach cannot cross the ocean so easily. I am warning
against overreaction. Athel Toralien is unpopular yet desirable, and it
would take but a small incitement for many powerful folk of Nagarythe to
take a keener interest in our affairs.’

‘What is it that you think I would do?’ said Hellebron. ‘I am not so
ungrateful that I would murder the elf that gave me life! Let Mirieth
rant and write for all she is worth; for that matter, let them all rave
against us; their opposition only strengthens our cause.’

‘The will of the people will be known, and in the end they will force us
to act,’ said Lirieth. ‘When the mob is baying for the blood of our
rivals, that is the moment we will strike.’

Hellebron considered this. There was a certain appeal to letting her
opponents create their own downfall, but for this to be guaranteed they
would need a nudge in the right direction.

‘We cannot allow the others to be too meek,’ she said. ‘If we overstep
the mark, it will be too easy for them to accuse us of being
power-hungry and selfish; yet we must weigh against that the peril of
being too meek ourselves. We enjoy the seduction of novelty for the
moment, and we must make some steps towards securing our position while
the favour is with us.’

‘You have something in mind? Something that is not too obvious?’

‘I do, sister. The arrogance of Khelthion was opportune, but the other
cult leaders will not repeat his mistake. And it is the appeal of the
sacrifice that will draw followers to our cause. We must find another
candidate for Khaine’s cruel intentions, one who is an important
supporter of our rivals but not directly part of a sect.’

The two of them spent some time looking over Hellebron’s copious notes,
examining the names provided to them by those elves hoping to settle a
personal score. Many were petty matters, of interest only to a few; many
others were too important for Hellebron to act against, knowing that
their allies would no doubt reciprocate.

Sifting through the spite of the Naggarothi took some time. Liannin
entered with two gleaming lanterns and placed them upon the hooks on the
chamber walls. Hellebron barely noticed her, but looked up as the maid
hesitated by the door. Liannin bowed her head in deference, but there
was clearly something on her mind.

‘Speak,’ said Hellebron. She stood up and raised Liannin’s chin with a
finger. ‘Do I not consider you almost a second sister? What troubles
you?’

‘I am afraid,’ said Liannin.

‘Has someone said something to you?’ asked Lirieth, setting aside the
scroll she was reading. ‘Has someone made a threat?’

‘Not against me, and not in any direct way,’ said Liannin. She grasped
Hellebron’s arm and looked at the two sisters with concern. ‘It is you
that I fear for. There is rumour that Anellion, Khelthion’s successor,
will denounce you to the city and is bringing a powerful person from
Ulthuan to do the same. A friend of my cousin works at the docks and
says that Anellion despatched a messenger aboard a fast ship yesterday.’

‘To whom was this message sent?’ Hellebron guided Liannin to a chair and
eased her into it. ‘Did you get a name?’

‘Khorlandir,’ said Liannin.

The name was familiar but Hellebron could not place it. She looked at
Lirieth to see if her sister remembered. Her sister’s brow was furrowed
with consternation.

‘I know that name,’ said Lirieth. ‘I heard it from the lips of
Lethruis.’

The mention of Lethruis sparked recollection in Hellebron’s mind.

‘Was it not from Khorlandir that Lethruis learnt the secrets of Khaine?’

‘It is so, sister. He must be powerful indeed, perhaps even a high
priest in Anlec. It would not go well for us if he were to come to Athel
Toralien.’

‘No it would not,’ said Hellebron. She noticed Liannin listening closely
to the conversation. She stood behind the maid and laid a hand on her
shoulder. ‘Do not be afraid. You have done well to warn us of this. It
would be a great use to us if you could find out anything more that
Anellion intends. Can you do this for us?’

Liannin looked up with grateful eyes.

‘Of course, I will keep my eyes open and my ears ready,’ said the maid.
Again there was a moment of hesitation and Hellebron waved Liannin to
continue. ‘If it is not too much to ask, I would like to attend one of
your ceremonies. I was not able to see you the other night.’

Hellebron and Lirieth smiled at each other.

‘That would not be a problem at all, dear Liannin,’ said Lirieth. ‘It
was remiss of us not to invite you.’

‘Not only will we ensure that you can attend our next dedication, we
will make you our guest of honour,’ added Hellebron.

With a grateful smile Liannin stood up, squeezed Hellebron’s hand
affectionately and hurried towards the door.

‘Thank you,’ said Liannin. ‘If it would be all right, I would like to
bring some other friends; servants of other great families.’

‘Bring whomsoever you would like,’ said Hellebron. ‘The more, the
merrier!’

Liannin proved a useful spy and the following day returned with news
that the priest, Anellion, had an illicit lover, a silversmith who lived
in the crafts quarter near the waterfront. Anellion often spent much
time with her, ostensibly to procure jewellery and other accoutrements
for his followers, but the two were more than trader and customer.

This information coincided nicely with a planned ritual the following
night. After the display with Khelthion’s body, the sisters’ new
adherents would be expecting something equally spectacular.

As the moons slipped out of sight, the pair ghosted through the empty
streets of Athel Toralien. They were clad in robes of dark grey, swathed
in black cloaks, shadows in the darkness. They found the silversmith’s
store without incident and entered unseen. Slipper-covered feet padding
soundlessly on the polished wooden floor, they made their way through
the shop and upstairs to the living quarters.

Through the archway they spied a couple, ageing in years, asleep upon a
great bed. They carried on, checking the other rooms, until they found
the dark-haired lover of Anellion lying curled up beneath a woollen
blanket, her pretty face bathed in the golden light of a lamp hanging
from a roof beam outside.

Lirieth pulled something from her waistband; a long pin with a short
wooden handle. She pushed its tip through the wax seal of a small phial
and pulled it free, a single droplet of liquid hanging from its end.
Leaning over the silversmith, Lirieth pricked the side of the maiden’s
neck, drawing blood.

The girl awoke with a start, hand reaching to the pain in her neck.
Hellebron clamped a gloved hand over the silversmith’s mouth as she was
about to scream. The girl struggled for a moment and then suddenly fell
limp as the dreamvine toxin spread to her brain. The silversmith stared
at the ceiling with unseeing eyes, her mouth slack.

‘Listen to us very carefully,’ said Hellebron, stooping to whisper into
the maiden’s ear. ‘When you awake in the morning, you will remember
nothing of this save the instructions we are about to give you. You will
follow these commands without hesitation. Do you understand?’

The girl nodded vaguely.

‘Good,’ said Lirieth. She drew a dagger from her belt and curled the
silversmith’s limp fingers around its handle. ‘Listen well.’

The lanterns had all been extinguished, leaving the flames of the pyre
as the only light in the plaza. The walls of the houses and businesses
around the square danced with shadows and the gathered elves were bathed
in an orange glow.

Hellebron was pleased to see an even larger crowd, almost a thousand
elves. As before there was a mixed mood, and she could clearly see
groups from the other cults clustered about their priests, ready to make
trouble; as word of the Khainites had spread through the city, the other
sects had rallied their followers too. There was a mood of confrontation
but Hellebron knew that the event of the night would precipitate
something far stronger than some glares and heckling.

Lirieth began with the usual preamble, praising the strength of Khaine,
conjuring visions of the great war with the daemons, and the elves’
deliverance by Aenarion and the Sword of Khaine.

Hellebron took up the tale, renewing her warnings that the elves would
never know peace and reminding the crowd that the Naggarothi were ever
at the forefront of battle and needed Khaine’s blessing more than any
other kingdom.

‘Let the spirit of Khaine fill our hearts and make our blood rush!’ said
Lirieth. ‘Who else feels the spirit of Khaine?’

Hellebron and Lirieth stalked back and forth in front of the audience,
naked blades in their hands, eyes scanning the crowds.

‘Who would open themselves up to the Prince of Blood?’ cried Hellebron.

There were some shouts from the elves; those who had worshipped under
Lethruis now followers of the Brides of Khaine.

‘Praise Khaine!’ a voice shouted from the mass. The call was taken up
and repeated, growing in ferocity.

A piercing shriek split the chanting and an elf maiden broke from the
throng, a curved dagger in her hand. It was the silversmith, her eyes
wild, her clothes ragged as she tore at her dress.

‘I feel the spirit of Khaine!’ she screeched. She fell to her knees in
front of Hellebron, head back, an agonised cry coming from deep within.
It was a primal noise, of fury and pain. ‘It burns! My spirit is on
fire!’

Another figure emerged, shouldering through the press of elves. It was
Anellion, in all his priestly accoutrements.

‘Maineth, what madness is this?’ he said, grabbing hold of the
silversmith’s arm to drag her to her feet.

Maineth ripped herself from his grip and staggered towards the pyre. Her
whole body trembled, the dagger wavering in her hand. She looked at
Anellion with glazed eyes before turning that mad stare upon the rest of
the elves. Maineth seemed to be struggling with something, the knife
weaving a random pattern in front of her.

Hellebron and Lirieth watched intently, silently offering up their
prayers to Khaine that the dreamvine would work.

‘I cannot do it!’ screamed Maineth. Hellebron took a step to intervene,
but Maineth stumbled away from her outstretched hand. ‘I cannot give you
the one I love, take me instead!’

Maineth plunged the dagger into her exposed chest. Blood spilled onto
the cobbles as she fell backwards, crimson frothing at her lips. The
crowd exploded into uproar. The rival priests and their followers hurled
accusations while Hellebron’s faithful cried out to Khaine. The
undecided amongst the crowd screamed in horror, or broke down weeping.

Anellion ran to Maineth and knelt down, lifting her head to his lap. He
pulled the dagger free and flung it away, blood coating his hands and
arms, staining the gold-and-white thread of his robe. He ran his fingers
through her hair, staining her locks with crimson, smearing more blood
on her face.

The high priest looked up at Hellebron with a hate-filled gaze. Gently
lowering Maineth to the ground, Anellion stood up, shaking with rage.

‘Khaine takes His own,’ said Lirieth, stepping up beside her sister,
knife held ready.

Hellebron was still shocked by the silversmith’s actions; she had been
instructed to attack Anellion, but this was even better. Gathering her
wits, she faced off against Anellion.

‘That anger you feel, that rage that courses through you, that is
Khaine’s gift,’ said Hellebron. ‘You cannot blame the priests for the
actions of their god. Khaine chose you for His sacrifice for this night;
be thankful that your lover chose to give herself in your place.’

‘This is an attack upon me, on the sect of Ereth Khial,’ said Anellion.
‘Do not think that such a thing will go unpunished.’

‘And who will deliver your vengeance?’ said Lirieth. ‘Ereth Khial? Anath
Raema? Atharti? No, it is the power of Khaine that you desire. It is
Khaine that you must turn to when you wish to strike down in hate and
fear. Khaine has made His choice and found you unworthy.’

Hellebron noticed a disturbance in the crowd; Anellion’s followers and
their allies were scuffling with the Khainites. It was too soon for such
open confrontation.

‘Cease your petty struggling!’ she shouted, pointing her dagger at the
brawling elves. ‘Tonight a sacred act has taken place. Do not despoil
the sacrifice of this beautiful moment with your mortal prejudices.
Maineth has given her spirit to Khaine and we must consecrate her flesh
to Him.’

Lirieth stooped over Maineth’s corpse, her blade above the wound in her
chest.

‘No!’ Anellion launched himself at Lirieth. The Bride of Khaine stepped
easily aside and swung the back of her fist into his jaw, sending the
priest tumbling to the ground.

‘Do not anger Khaine further with this interference,’ snarled Hellebron,
standing between Anellion and his lover’s body. ‘He has claimed one of
us tonight, do not draw His eye upon yourself.’

Tears streamed down Anellion’s face as Lirieth crouched over Maineth and
cut out her heart. She lifted it reverentially to the crowd, who were
now subdued, finally realising what had happened.

‘Praise Khaine,’ Lirieth said softly. ‘Take this sacrifice and stay Your
bloody hand from our lives. Be sated with this offering of blood and
flesh.’

She threw the heart into the flames and fell to her knees. Hellebron did
the same, bowing down to the fire. Behind them, other elves followed
their lead, bowing their heads and kneeling down in worship.

‘Praise Khaine.’ It was not a victorious shout but a frightened whisper
from hundreds of elves.

Unseen, Hellebron smiled.

The effect of Maineth’s self-sacrifice was felt all across Athel
Toralien. Hellebron and Lirieth were inundated with callers seeking
protection from Khaine’s wrath. Many came simply to give praise, but
there were a good number who wished to learn all the ways of Khaine; not
just the prayers and rituals, but also to fight in Khaine’s name.

Lirieth and Hellebron welcomed these new acolytes. With their father’s
money and influence they took over one of the villas that looked out
onto the sacrifice square. Craftsmen were brought in to convert the
house into a temple. Over many days, a black granite statue depicting
Khaine was raised at the gate, and iron braziers erected along the
walls, burning with magical flame. The Brides of Khaine gathered their
most promising followers and began to school them in the arts of war,
introducing them to the various drugs that allowed them to fight without
fear or fatigue.

For their part, the other sects conceded temporary defeat. Fearful of
what happened to Maineth, the other priests and priestesses restricted
their protests to their own gatherings. Hellebron was content not to
push the matter; her focus was on securing her hold on those that came
flooding to the new shrine.

Many of these new Khainites were desperate, haunted by the tale of
Khaine possessing Maineth and forcing her to commit suicide. They
regularly cut themselves and offered up their blood to Khaine, hoping
that such smaller sacrifices would keep the Prince of Blood at bay.
Hellebron and Lirieth presided over these bloodletting ceremonies,
ensuring that their followers did not inflict any wound too grievous,
giving assurance that Khaine’s thirst could be slaked if the blood was
offered with suitable humility.

Autumn turned to winter, winter to spring and a new rhythm of life
settled in Athel Toralien. Hellebron’s sect numbered several thousand,
larger even than the following of Ereth Khial. As she consolidated her
power, Hellebron’s thoughts turned to wider matters. It was not enough
to be the strongest cult in Athel Toralien; to dominate entirely the
Khainites would need to extend their power beyond the city.

The Brides of Khaine despatched their most trusted and able followers to
several other cities around the colonies. Their task was simple: to
recruit elves from other kingdoms into Khaine’s fold. This was a risky
mission, for though the Naggarothi had no qualms about the Prince of
Blood, worship of Khaine was not welcomed by other kingdoms. These
heralds would work in secret, subtly extending their influence,
attracting those who were willing.

Over the next year, Hellebron’s confidence grew further. With a strong
but as yet incomplete hold on the city, the shrine’s coffers swelling
with donations, she wrote a letter to Khorlandir, high priest of Khaine
in Anlec. In that letter, she extolled the virtues of the Khainites and
told Khorlandir of what she had created in Athel Toralien. It was her
hope that word of what she had done would begin to circulate in Anlec,
paving the way for her eventual arrival. Perhaps, she thought, even
Morathi might hear the name Hellebron again.

As another winter turned to spring, Hellebron received word back from
Khorlandir. He praised her work in Khaine’s name and reassured Hellebron
that such dedication would not go unrewarded.

The letter also contained a warning. The rise of Khaine in Athel
Toralien was part of a greater movement, and in Nagarythe the other
sects were becoming more desperate to halt the popularity of the
Khainites. Khorlandir told Hellebron to be wary of any move by the other
priests in the city, concerned that rival cults would choose to direct
their jealousy against the Khainites isolated in Athel Toralien.

Though Hellebron was disposed to dismiss such concerns, Lirieth was
quick to guard against overconfidence. From Liannin, who had proved
herself an enthusiastic and popular, and exceptionally useful, member of
the sect, the sisters learned that there were whispers of discontent;
almost two years had passed since Maineth’s dramatic self-sacrifice and
many followers were becoming disenchanted with the Brides of Khaine.
Lirieth suspected agitators from the rival sects were stirring up
trouble, but even Liannin was unable to point out any of the ringleaders
driving the quiet rebellion.

Before Hellebron could devise a plan of action, more worrying news
filtered up from the mass of followers. Several elves were missing, and
the finger of blame was directed at the priests of Ereth Khial. It was
claimed that cultists following the Goddess of the Dead had stolen into
the homes of the Khainites and snatched them away, though no witnesses
could be found to swear this as fact.

‘There are no feathers without a hawk,’ Lirieth said to Hellebron one
afternoon, as the two of them sat in a small antechamber next to the
main temple hall mixing the secret potions and salves used by the
Khainites. ‘It is as Khorlandir warned: the other sects are building to
some larger move against us.’

‘They seek to sow division within our company,’ said Hellebron. She took
a pinch of powder from a flask and used a pestle and mortar to mix it
with crushed venomblossom. ‘If we fail to respond, our leadership will
be questioned and unrest will spread.’

‘We need another living sacrifice,’ said Lirieth. ‘The blooding does not
engage as many of our followers as it once did.’

At that moment the curtain of the chamber parted and Liannin entered
carrying a steaming pan of water. She set it down next to the sisters
and was about to leave when Lirieth caught her by the arm.

‘What is the feeling amongst our brothers and sisters?’ Lirieth asked.

‘They are angry more than afraid,’ replied Liannin. She looked very
different from the maid she had been, her skin whitened with dye, her
hair and lips black. Tiny scars of many cuts covered her arms and
shoulders, and she had branded a small rune of Khaine onto her left
cheek. ‘They see these kidnappings as a challenge to Khaine.’

‘We must strike back, and hard enough that there will be no
retaliation,’ said Hellebron. She looked at Liannin. ‘Send out the word
to our followers that tonight we shall hold a special ceremony. Lirieth,
gather our best fighters and bring them here before dusk. It is time
that we sent a message that cannot be ignored.’

Hellebron and Lirieth stalked through the streets at the head of fifty
of their most zealous followers. All of the Khainites were armed with
swords and daggers, and they carried burning torches with them. As they
passed across the city to the temple district, the slamming of doors and
rattle of window shutters greeted them. Even those elves with no
interest in religion could not be ignorant of recent developments, and
the grim sight of the Khainites sent many elves to flight, fearful for
their lives.

Rather than confront the supporters of Anellion directly, Hellebron led
her followers to the shrine of Atharti. The pleasure-seekers were an
easy target, mostly the young and disaffected who indulged in casual
liaison and gross intoxication. The temple of the pleasure goddess was a
high, narrow hall with column-lined steps leading up to the main
entrance. Above the threshold was a frieze, an indecent image of
entwined bodies, with a flowing inscription beneath: ‘There is no life
without pleasure’.

Hellebron broke into a run, her followers dashing up the steps behind
her. There was no door to bar their path and they flowed through the
high arch quickly. Inside the temple, the soporific incense of the
Athartists lingered on the air, a few dim lanterns shining purple
through the haze.

The worshippers lay in scattered groups upon the carpeted floor, in
various states of undress. A few looked up with drug-addled eyes as the
Khainites spread across the chamber, weapons in hand. Lying naked upon
her altar, the high priestess Ilintalia turned languidly towards the
newcomers, a half-smile upon her lips.

Hellebron grabbed the priestess by her curled white hair and wrenched
her from the altar. Ilintalia squealed with pain but was unable to offer
any firmer resistance as Hellebron dragged her back towards the street.
Others were roused by her cry, but so intoxicated were they that the
Khainites had no problem hauling them to their feet; there was not even
need for any bindings.

Surrounded by the bared blades of the Khainites, the Athartists stumbled
and slouched towards the street, mumbling in confused fear. A few were
regaining their senses, shock washing away the effects of their
indulgence. Their protests were swiftly silenced by punches and kicks.

Back across the city marched the Khainites, their hostages huddled in
the midst of the mob. There were questions and accusations hurled from
doorways and windows as the cultists passed, but Hellebron said nothing
and her followers were under strict instructions to harm nobody but
their rivals.

Liannin had done her part of the task well and the congregation of
Khainites was so large that it spilled out of the temple and into the
square where those first ceremonies had been held. Liannin herself stood
by the doorway, dagger in hand, as the Khainites laughed and jeered at
the feeble Athartists.

Ilintalia was rousing from her fugue and began to wriggle desperately.
Hellebron and Lirieth seized the priestess and heaved her into the air,
carrying her into the temple upon their shoulders, impervious to her
struggles. A great cheer greeted them from within, where the Khainites
were packed shoulder-to-shoulder, leaving only a small space in front of
the fire pit. They parted to let the Brides of Khaine reach the
bloodstained stone altar set before the pyre, hurling insults at
Ilintalia.

The sisters dropped the Atharti priestess onto the slab, dazing her.
While Lirieth brought forth manacles to chain Ilintalia, Hellebron
darted into the antechamber and emerged a moment later with a golden
chalice; its contents a potent mix of narcotics.

Without a word being said, Hellebron brought out her knife, slicing its
blade across the wrist of their captive. Blood poured from the long
wound, to be caught by Hellebron in the wide-brimmed cup. She used her
knife to stir the contents and then took a long draught.

Already excited by the taking of the sacrifices, Hellebron’s whole body
burned as the concoction of blood and drugs took effect. She passed the
chalice to Lirieth, who drank swiftly and then gave the goblet over to
Liannin to share with those close at hand.

Hellebron stood over Ilintalia, dagger raised. The crackle of the flames
and the panting of the congregation added to the noise in her head. The
smoke from the fire was no thicker than the fog of her thoughts as she
searched for some incantation or prayer to accompany the sacrifice.

She stared out at the expectant faces of her followers, more of them
trying to cram in through the door than would ever fit. They didn’t care
for words, they wanted only one thing: blood!

Hellebron drove the dagger into Ilintalia’s breast, again and again,
stabbing and slashing in a frenzy of bloodlust. She ripped out her
sacrifice’s heart and raised it to her lips, tearing a chunk from the
organ with her teeth. Crimson spilling down her chin and chest, she
presented the trophy to the crowd.

‘Praise Khaine!’

The shrine shook with wild shrieks and roars. Hellebron cast the heart
into the flames. She felt like she was floating, buoyed up by excitement
and adulation. The Khainites bayed for more and another of the
Athartists was roughly deposited onto the altar as Ilintalia’s corpse
was taken away and cut to pieces by Khainites who sought to take their
own souvenirs of this glorious night.

This time Lirieth took her turn, more sedate in her actions, carefully
cutting open her sacrifice, the young elf’s weeping and cries of agony a
chorus of praise to the Prince of Murder. Not until she plunged her
dagger under his exposed ribs did he die, a plaintive wail ripped from
his lips.

Outside, frustrated Khainites fell upon the other prisoners in a storm
of shredding blades and ripping hands. Bones and blood littered the
cobbled square as the cultists tore apart their sacrifices, chanting
praises to Khaine, tossing garlands of entrails to each other like
obscene playthings.

Long into night the murder continued, charnel smoke billowing from the
temple to swathe the stars, hundreds of voices echoing through the
streets of Athel Toralien while the common citizens cowered in their
homes.

The great sacrifice of the Athartists did not go without retaliation.
The following night, Khainites were set upon by mobs from the other
temples and dragged to the altars of other gods. Flames flickered above
the city as the homes of Khainites were set on fire. No opponent dared
approach the shrine itself, nor strike against Hellebron or Lirieth.

When dawn came and the dead were counted, more than a hundred Khainites
had been slain, and half that number of other cultists. Hellebron spoke
to her followers and promised them that Khaine would not let these
crimes go unpunished. Knowing that many in the city were not aligned to
any particular sect, Hellebron was determined that the Khainites would
be held in highest dread; she could not allow any other cult to oppose
her.

The following night, the Khainites were let loose and running fights
broke out through the streets around the temple district. None could
match the savagery of the blood cultists and hundreds died, slain on the
road or dragged screaming to the altar.

Dawn brought no peace as the battles continued. The sun rose upon a city
stained with bloodshed, the streets littered with corpses. Hellebron
stood at the door of the temple with Lirieth by her side and exhorted
her weary followers to continue.

The clatter of hooves on pavement echoed across the square and a troop
of knights rode into view. More than a hundred riders filed into the
plaza, lances lowered and swords unsheathed. Behind them came rank upon
rank of soldiers with bows and spears, spreading into the streets around
the temple of Khaine.

The knights’ captain steered his mount towards the shrine and stopped a
short distance from the Brides of Khaine. Hellebron did not recognise
him.

‘By order of Prince Alandrian, all religious cults and sects are to
cease this disorder immediately.’ The captain glared at Hellebron. ‘That
includes you. Your father is very unhappy.’

‘We are fighting to defend ourselves,’ said Lirieth. Hellebron was too
furious for words; how dare her father interfere now, at the moment of
her triumph?

‘There will be no more fighting,’ said the captain. ‘All temples are to
be closed and there will be a curfew from dusk to dawn. Any found
continuing this sectarian insolence will be arrested and tried as
traitors.’

‘I demand to see my father!’ shrieked Hellebron.

‘We have friends within the army,’ said Lirieth.

The captain laughed.

‘Any soldier of Nagarythe who disobeys the commands of Prince Alandrian
will be executed without trial or appeal. As for your father, he sent me
here to bring you to him.’ The captain’s humour faded.

‘You are both under arrest.’
