
EIGHTEEN 

The Phoenix Resurgent

The plains outside the walls of Anlec were still hard with frost, the
air steaming with the breath of thousands of warriors. Armour dark
against the white ground, they waited in rank after rank for the command
of their king. Malekith looked down at his army from the eastern gate
tower, overshadowed by Sulekh, the Witch King’s dragon. The black-scaled
monster loomed over the gatehouse with wings half-spread, her hide
pitted and scarred from many fights with her brood. None had been able
to tame her until Malekith, and now that she was broken to his will the
black dragon was his bodyguard as well as steed.

The ring of heels on the stone steps of the gate tower announced the
arrival of Morathi. The sorceress-queen strode onto the rampart and
stood beside her son to survey the host of Anlec.

‘They are a fine coronation gift,’ said Malekith, fiery eyes regarding
the massed companies below. ‘You were wise to save them for me.’

‘I knew you would return to us, one day,’ replied Morathi. ‘All that
remains is to use your gift to seize the throne of Ulthuan.’

‘We shall inspect the troops,’ announced the Witch King.

He held out his right arm and the flames that played about his armour
died, leaving wisps of smoke in the air. Morathi laid her hand on the
proffered arm and the two of them made their way down the tower and
headed out of the city.

‘You have met Hellebron already,’ said Morathi, waving a hand towards
the Khainite high priestess. Her hair had been bleached white and stood
in spikes and a mask of dried blood covered her face.

‘Hail the Witch King, son of Khaine!’ she shrieked, lifting twin blades
above her head. The Khainites let out ululations of praise, howling and
screaming as they flourished their weapons.

Witch King and sorceress moved on past the wailing cultists to where a
dozen princes and commanders stood waiting, their companies of spears
and repeater crossbows standing in stolid lines as the cold wind keened
across the open plain. The crews of a hundred bolt throwers stood ready
beside their machines, flanked by five thousand heavily armoured knights
on black steeds.

‘The host of Anlec,’ said Morathi.

Malekith nodded and at a shouted command, the thousands of Naggarothi
crashed spears and swords against shields and stamped their feet.

‘Hail the Witch King!’ they roared, lifting their weapons in salute.

Further north were the beast pens, where the black dragons lazed,
surrounded by a fog of noxious gas. Manticores paced their iron cages
and roared their frustration. Griffons and hydras strained at their
chains, their rasping growls and hisses dying to silence as the Witch
King approached. Even the manticores seemed cowed by Malekith’s
presence, settling to their haunches in deference, submissive whimpers
echoing from their cages.

Other warriors there were too; lightly armoured scouts and foot knights
who wore long coats of mail and high-crested helms. Morathi’s sorcerers
and sorceresses, a dozen in number, lowered themselves to their knees as
Malekith came near. Assassins branded and tattooed with the marks of
Khaine abased themselves, presenting poison-edged daggers of black
crystal as a sign of obedience.

‘What is your plan?’ asked Morathi as mother and son turned back towards
the city gate.

‘Chrace must fall,’ announced the Witch King. ‘Tor Achare must be taken
if we are to stage any campaign against the eastern kingdoms.’

‘That will take us into the territory of the Anars,’ said Morathi. ‘Many
an army has not returned from those mountains.’

‘It is my territory!’ Malekith snarled, snatching his arm away from his
mother. Flames rippled along his armour, burning dark blue, the inside
of his helm glowing with the same hue. ‘I will crush the Anars, as you
should have done a decade ago.’

‘It is fool’s errand to attempt a conquest of the mountains,’ Morathi
snapped back. ‘Many of my incompetent minions lost their lives
attempting the feat.’

‘I did not say I will conquer Elanardris,’ said Malekith, ‘I said I
would crush the Anars. The march to Chrace will be too tempting a
target, and when they attack I will trap them and kill the last of
Eoloran’s spawn. Without Alith, their resistance will crumble.’

‘We thought him dead for many years,’ said Morathi. ‘He is sly.’

‘I know him,’ said Malekith. ‘I have seen him. He is nothing more than a
boy. He will not outwit me.’

They passed under the gate as the commanders dismissed the army back to
their camps. The huge iron portcullis descended and the gates closed as
the pair emerged into the late winter sun that shone down on the plaza
within the walls.

‘You said you will take Tor Achare,’ Morathi prompted.

‘With Tiranoc and Chrace in my possession, Ellyrion will soon fall.
Avelorn is a spent force, to be finished off at my leisure. Cothique
lies ruined, and so Saphery will be the next objective. Thyriol is not
the match for either of us, and together we can destroy his gaggle of
mages and rob Caledor of their enchantments.’

‘You seem to have everything considered,’ said Morathi, as the two of
them crossed the square towards the road leading to Aenarion’s palace.

‘I have had a long time to consider my plans,’ replied the Witch King.
‘When the pain was not too great, I thought hard on what I would do. I
will isolate Imrik, take from him every advantage and ally, and when he
is left alone, I will offer him the chance to hand over the throne of
Ulthuan.’

‘He would never accept,’ said Morathi. ‘He is far too stubborn to admit
defeat.’

‘I do not wish him to accept,’ said Malekith. He held out a
flame-wreathed hand. ‘When he refuses, I will seize him by the throat
and he will burn. He will not know one-hundredth of the pain I knew, but
it will still be an agonising death. I will slaughter his people and
cast down Tor Caled. The dragons will be broken and turned to our cause
and when all of this is accomplished, when Imrik knows that I am the
master of the elves, I shall burn him to death.’

Malekith shuddered with delight as he pictured that glorious moment. It
had overtaken the visions of coronation in his dreams. He could feel the
charring of the usurper’s flesh on his fingertips and hear his strangled
cries of mercy. Malekith knew well the stench of burned flesh, but the
smell of Imrik’s immolation would be sweeter than the finest incense of
Cothique. Skin would bubble and his eyes would melt. Flesh would rupture
and bone turn to ash.

‘I have the measure of him,’ said the Witch King, freeing himself from
the daydream with some effort. ‘My foray into Ellyrion has proven I am
the superior general. He is guilty of extremes, veering between cautious
defence and over enthusiastic attack. He was never my equal.’

‘Yet he beat you in Ellyrion,’ said Morathi, darting a glance up at her
son’s masked face.

‘It was not my intent to defeat him,’ replied Malekith, holding his
temper in check despite the accusation in his mother’s voice. ‘The
Tiranocii conscripts would never be an army worthy of my command. And I
have taught Imrik a lesson, one that will make him nervous of attacking
my army again. I will use that uncertainty to my advantage when I strike
for Tor Achare.’

‘What of Tiranoc?’ said Morathi.

They had reached the plaza in front of the palaces. Sulekh swept over
the city, her massive shadow blotting the sun from the square as she
flew to a perch atop one of the palace’s ancient towers, stones and
tiles crumbling to dust as she found purchase with her claws. Malekith
glanced up at the dragon, amused by her behaviour, as loyal and
dependent as a hunting dog.

‘Tiranoc?’ he said, recalling the question. ‘It is safe. Imrik dares not
launch an offensive while his allies are under attack. He will have to
defend Chrace, or lose the loyalty of his supporters. That is his
weakness. He cares what his subjects think.’

‘That is not a problem for you,’ said Morathi as they mounted the steps
up to the palace doors. ‘Our people adore you.’

‘They can hate me, for all that I care of their opinion,’ replied
Malekith. ‘As long as they fear me.’

As loath as he was to leave his army, Caledor was forced to convene a
fresh council at the Isle of the Flame so that the matter of Malekith’s
return could be discussed. To the Phoenix King the only thing that had
changed was the quality of his opponent. As ruler of Nagarythe, Morathi
had been prone to acts of spite and was not a natural military leader.
Malekith was a far more worrying proposition. It had not been by luck
that he had conquered much of Elthin Arvan.

Leaving Maedrethnir to recover from his wounds in Tor Elyr, Caledor
travelled with Finudel and Athielle, while Dorien remained as the
general of the combined armies of Caledor and Ellyrion. They took ship
to the Shrine of Asuryan, and were met by the delegations of the other
kingdoms, hastily gathered for the conference.

The first day tested the Phoenix King’s patience, as every prince
offered forth his own theories on how Malekith’s survival had come to
pass. Some questioned the veracity of the report, but were convinced of
Alith Anar’s trustworthiness in this matter by Athielle, who had been in
sombre mood since learning of the Shadow King’s own apparent
resurrection. Caledor ended the day’s session early, realising that no
real business would be done while the princes were still taken aback by
the revelation of Malekith’s return.

He fared little better on the second day; the council seemed determined
to discuss their own ongoing woes and how these affected the promises
they had made in the previous council. Caledor detected no small amount
of back-tracking from the plan that had been agreed upon, and a call was
made to debate a new course of action.

The Phoenix King left abruptly as Finudel was making a speech, striding
from the shrine in a foul temper. Mianderin caught up with him on the
marble road that led to the quays where the king’s ship was berthed.

‘Your departure is hasty,’ the priest called out, holding up a hand to
wave the king to a halt.

‘Empty oaths,’ snapped the Phoenix King, turning to face the high priest
of Asuryan as he hurried up the white causeway, robes flapping.
‘Promises were made and now they argue the most eloquent way to renege
on them.’

‘They are scared,’ said Mianderin.

‘Of what?’ replied Caledor.

‘Of Malekith,’ said the priest.

The Phoenix King did not know what to say to this. Mianderin took his
frown of confusion as a sign of anger.

‘Do not be so harsh on them,’ said the priest, taking the Phoenix King’s
arm to lead him to a curving bench on an immaculate lawn beside the
road. ‘Some of them saw Malekith emerge from the flames, and even if not
for that remarkable survival, his reputation cannot be ignored.’

‘He scares me as well,’ admitted Caledor, pulling aside his cloak of
feathers to sit down. ‘That is why we must be united and strike first.’

‘Your fear drives you to action,’ said Mianderin, seating himself beside
the Phoenix King, hands held neatly in his lap. ‘Their fear makes them
cautious. Something they once believed true has proved false and every
other doubt they have is magnified.’

Caledor rubbed his chin and considered this. It had not occurred to him
that the other princes would react in this way.

‘You must allay their fears and dispel their doubts,’ said Mianderin.
‘They will follow you, they have shown that, but you cannot drag them
with you.’

‘As we speak, the druchii could be on the march,’ said Caledor. ‘We do
not have time for endless debate.’

‘And in this, you show your fear to them.’ Mianderin turned his head to
look at the shrine. ‘You cannot bully them, as Malekith found out. No
matter how weak you think them to be, they are princes of Ulthuan,
rulers of their kingdoms, and they have their pride.’

‘Vanity.’

‘Perhaps, but no more than yours,’ said the high priest. ‘What else but
vanity would make you believe that they will follow you without
question?’

‘Necessity,’ replied Caledor.

‘They see the world differently. They look only at what they have to
lose, while you see what can be gained. That is why they chose you, to
provide them with the vision they lack.’

‘I am not that sort of leader,’ said Caledor. ‘I do not make speeches or
waste words.’

‘And you do not have to,’ said Mianderin. ‘But your actions can be
misinterpreted. What does the council think at the moment? Have you
abandoned them? They do not know your thoughts.’

Caledor looked at the gleaming pyramid of the shrine like it was a
fortress to besiege, his heart heavy. He took a deep breath and stood up
with a glance at Mianderin.

‘Let them know my thoughts?’ said the Phoenix King.

The priest nodded with a smile of encouragement.

‘I can do that,’ said Caledor.

He strode back to the shrine, the Phoenix Guard at the door parting
their halberds to allow him entry. The Phoenix King stopped and looked
at the two silent warriors.

‘Summon your captain, I will speak with him shortly,’ said the king. The
guards nodded their assent and Caledor passed into the shrine.

He strode back to his chair but did not sit down. The conversation of
the princes died away and all watched him closely. The Phoenix King took
off his winged helm and set it on the seat of the throne. He then opened
the clasp of his ceremonial cloak and cast the mass of feathers over the
throne’s back. Caledor turned to face the others, arms crossed.

‘I am Imrik again,’ he said. ‘Forget the cloak and the crown. Forget the
Phoenix King. Listen to Imrik, dragon prince of Caledor, who you all
turned to in your time of desperation.’

He strode purposefully across the shrine, armoured boots ringing loudly
on the tiles, filling the silence. He stood before the table where
Thyriol sat and leaned forwards, fists on its wooden surface.

‘Did you choose me to be your king?’ said Caledor.

‘I did,’ Thyriol replied with a nod.

‘Why?’

The mage looked at the others before he answered.

‘You were the best suited to it,’ said Thyriol. ‘Your skills as a
warrior and a general, your determination and your principles made you
the best of all the princes.’

‘Is there another that now surpasses me in that regard?’ Caledor’s eyes
bored into the mage’s as he waited for the answer.

‘No,’ said Thyriol.

Caledor straightened and looked at the other princes.

‘If any of you disagree with Thyriol, who alone amongst us has chosen
two kings, speak your mind now.’

None of the princes spoke. A few exchanged glances. Finudel smiled and
nodded, while Koradrel raised a fist in salute. The Phoenix King walked
back to his throne and put on the cloak and war helm before sitting
down.

‘I am Caledor, the Phoenix King, your ruler,’ he said leaning forwards,
fists on the arms of the throne. ‘While I live, we will not be defeated.
That is my oath.’

Heartened by this bold declaration, the council agreed to halt the
discussions until the next day, when they would hear the Phoenix King’s
proposal. As the princes left the main chamber of the shrine, a tall
warrior entered, his silver armour gleaming, halberd in hand, flowing
white cloak trimmed with embroidered flames of red and gold: the captain
of the Phoenix Guard, Elentyrion.

Caledor sat down and waved for the shrine’s chief protector to approach.

‘You are sworn to the protection of Asuryan’s flame,’ said the Phoenix
King. ‘Malekith will extinguish that flame if given the chance. He will
suffer no other to pass through it. Do you understand?’

The captain nodded once, his eyes not leaving Caledor’s.

‘Your defence of Asuryan’s shrine cannot start and end at the Isle of
the Flame,’ the king continued. ‘Should I fail, should we all fail,
Ulthuan will be overrun, including this shrine. The Phoenix Guard must
fight alongside the Phoenix King if they are to do their duty.’

The commander of the Phoenix Guard considered this for some time, his
face expressionless. Caledor thought the warrior’s passive response was
a refusal but he eventually bowed to one knee and nodded, placing his
halberd at the feet of the Phoenix King. Caledor picked up the weapon –
it weighed almost nothing, forged of ithilmar – and told Elentyrion to
rise. Handing the captain the halberd, Caledor allowed himself a brief
smile. Malekith might have kept an army hidden, but how would they fare
against the sacred warriors of Asuryan?

The council was called together early the next day. Caledor was keen to
say what he wanted before the princes had time to start their own
discussions. As a concession to the time of day, Mianderin had food
brought into the shrine and the atmosphere was one of a convivial
breakfast as Caledor spoke.

‘We must not underestimate Malekith,’ said the Phoenix King. ‘Yet we
must not also overestimate him and his army. There have been times when
all has seemed lost. Remember those first years, when the dragons slept
and Lothern was besieged. Remember the peril we all felt as Avelorn
burned. Remember the dread of Cothique left to its fate. We can remember
these things because we have survived them.’

‘Malekith’s return is like nothing we have faced before,’ said Carvalon.
He wiped crumbs from his lip with a silk napkin.

‘Malekith cannot be everywhere,’ replied Caledor.

There were looks of confusion from the princes.

‘Neither can you be everywhere,’ said Tithrain. ‘Nor the dragons. It
seems to me that we have returned to where we began, waiting for the
sword to fall so that we might turn it aside if we can.’

‘No,’ said Caledor. ‘That will not work. I do not know if I can beat
Malekith.’

This announcement was met with dismay from the princes. Caledor raised
his hand to quiet them but their protests continued.

‘Only yesterday you promised us victory,’ said Athielle. ‘Today you tell
us we cannot win.’

‘I did not say that.’ The Phoenix King rose from his throne and began to
walk around the shrine, looking at each of the princes in turn as he
spoke. ‘We do not have to defeat Malekith. We have to defeat the
druchii. Take away his army and he is just a lone warrior. A powerful
one, yes, and gifted with sorcery too, but just one elf.’

‘Not from what I saw on the Ellyrian plains,’ said Finudel. ‘He rides
the largest dragon I have ever seen, and after what he has endured I am
not so sure he is mortal any longer.’

‘We will test his immortality,’ said Caledor. ‘He cannot defeat an enemy
that will not face him.’

‘You said the same before, and Avelorn was almost destroyed,’ said
Athielle. ‘And what of Cothique?’

‘This war will be hard, but it cannot go on forever,’ Caledor assured
them, his confidence growing as he spoke. ‘Avelorn was not destroyed.
Cothique is wounded but survives. Ulthuan is stronger than Nagarythe. We
are stronger than Morathi and Malekith. Their greed and their hate
drives them. Our duty and our loyalty must be as strong.’

‘What do you propose?’ asked Thyriol, who had been busily eating his
breakfast while the others spoke, and had not spoken before. He pushed
away the remains of his meal and rested his hands on the table. ‘How do
we isolate Malekith?’

‘We must offer resistance where he advances, but not commit to open
battle,’ said Caledor, continuing to pace. ‘While the druchii attack in
one place, we attack them in another. The Anars had it right. We cannot
risk this war being decided on a single battle. Malekith will give us no
second chances.’

‘Chrace will bear the brunt of the fighting,’ said Koradrel. His
shoulders heaped with his white lion cloak, the prince of Chrace seemed
to dwarf the others in the room as he stood. He looked at Finudel and
Athielle. ‘As will Ellyrion. In Chrace, we know very well how to hunt.
The enemy will not breach the passes without casualty.’

‘We Ellyrians are not so well versed in mountain fighting,’ said
Finudel. ‘However, we can wage war on the move as well as any Chracian
hunts. Malekith will not find us easy to catch.’

‘And I will give the enemy another problem,’ said Caledor. ‘It is still
my intent to retake Tiranoc. I will muster the army in Caledor and
strike north for Tor Anroc.’

‘Do not expect this to be swift,’ warned Thyriol. ‘This plan of yours
will take years to come to fruition.’

‘Aenarion did not destroy the daemons in a day,’ Carvalon said with a
laugh.

‘Aenarion did not destroy the daemons,’ Caledor corrected the prince,
sitting in his throne. ‘My grandfather did.’

‘And your name will sit easily alongside his in our histories,’ said
Tithrain. He stood and raised a goblet of fruit juice. ‘It is too early
for wine, but I salute you with all that I have. Cothique has suffered,
but we will fight with you.’

The other princes stood also, offering their agreement. Out of the
corner of his eye, Caledor glimpsed Mianderin standing at the door of
side chamber. The high priest was nodding, a contented smile on his
face.

The rain rattled from Sulekh’s scales and hissed into steam where it hit
the Witch King’s armour. Rivers cascaded down the mountain slopes,
swelled to bursting from the spring deluge. The low clouds clung to the
peaks like a shroud, swathing the pass in a thick haze. Malekith’s army
picked their way down a slope strewn with boulders and fallen trees, a
winding column of black that disappeared into the grey mist.

Closing his eyes, the Witch King felt the bubbling winds of magic
washing over the Annulii. With the circlet, he could see every slender
strand, the smallest ebb and eddy of mystical energy. He searched for
disturbances hidden to normal eyes, seeking the telltale swell and whirl
of living things. Giant eagles nested in the heights of the peaks;
mountain goats bounded up the slopes in large herds, gorging themselves
on grass revealed by the recent thaw; a bear ambled from its cave
seeking food; the trees were delicate slivers of life burrowing deep
into the soil.

There was something else.

Further down the pass, Malekith detected the glow of fire, drawing the
magic of flames to it. A camp. Several camps. Around them he spied the
silvery flicker of elven spirits. He turned to the cluster of messengers
who sat astride their black horses a short distance from Sulekh, their
blinkered mounts trembling with fear.

‘Warn the vanguard,’ said Malekith. ‘There are Chracians on the northern
slope, where a bridge crosses a river. It may be an ambush.’

One of the riders nodded and headed off down the mountainside, his steed
galloping hard, grateful to be heading away from the presence of the
Witch King and his dragon.

It was almost an insult, thought Malekith. Did Caledor rate him so lowly
that he thought the Witch King would be caught by such a simple trap?
His armour creaking as he turned, Malekith cast his unnatural gaze back
towards the west, where his army was still crossing the last shoulder of
the mountain. It would be noon before they were all in the valley. It
did not matter, he was in no hurry. He wanted his enemies to know where
he was.

Malekith looked up, rain hammering into the mask of his helm. Droplets
danced and spat on the hot armour. He tried to remember when he had last
drunk water. He could not. The fires that burned inside him left him
with a ravening thirst but he could not quench it. It was the same with
food. Not a morsel had passed his lips since he had been sealed inside
the armoured suit. Sorcery alone kept him alive; the magic sustained by
the sacrifices bound within the plates of his artificial skin. It was
sad in some ways, liberating in others. He could taste nothing but the
ash of his own near-destruction, but he could dimly recollect the
sweetness of honey, the richness of wine.

Simple pleasures, taken from him by cowards and traitors. The jealous
priests of Asuryan had cursed the flames so that they would not accept
him. Yet their trickery had not succeeded. He had emerged from the
flames with the blessing of the lord of gods. He would throw them into
the fires they had tainted with their subterfuge and let them know what
their god’s judgement felt like.

The ground trembled. Malekith sensed it through a shift in the magical
winds, a turbulence that flowed south along the vortex. His ravaged ears
could hear little over the constant crackling of the flames, but the
Witch King’s magical sense was far more accurate. Boulders and logs
tumbled down the slope from the camps by the bridge. He heard the
screams of the warriors who had crossed over to attack the Chracians and
felt their bodies crushed by the avalanche unleashed by the
mountain-dwellers. The spirit of every dying elf flickered briefly, a
pinprick of darkness that was swallowed up by the ever-shifting tides of
magic.

There were more shouts and sounds of fighting. A column of march was no
formation for battle and the vanguard had allowed itself to be
surrounded, despite Malekith’s warning. With a growl, he jerked Sulekh’s
iron reins and the monstrous beast launched herself from the rock,
plunging down the valley in a swirl of cloud.

Nearing the bottom of the pass, Malekith saw several hundred Chracians
fighting against his warriors. He saw the slew of debris blocking the
bridge over which the vanguard had crossed, cutting off any
reinforcement. Naggarothi warriors called for axes and bars to be
brought forward so that the blockage could be cleared.

‘Stand back!’ Malekith roared as Sulekh landed on the near side of the
river, clawed feet sinking into the soft mud of the bank.

He waited while the startled soldiers hurried back from the bridge. When
they were clear of the crossing, the Witch King extended a hand, drawing
in the threads of magic that invisibly wound down the valley, crushing
them into pure energy with his force of will. He felt the icy touch of
the circlet in his mind as he shaped the magic, a bolt of forking
lightning leaping from his fist to smash into the boulders and hewn tree
trunks. Stone and wood splinters exploded upwards, cutting arcs through
the mist before drifting down onto the foaming water of the river.

‘Is it safe?’ one of the captains called out. The bridge had taken some
of the blast, its stone wall collapsed for half its length on one side.

‘That is not my concern,’ said Malekith. ‘Follow me!’

Sulekh leapt across the river and with a single flap of her vast wings
carried Malekith up the far slope to where his embattled soldiers were
encircled by axe- and spear-wielding Chracians. Some wore the prized
white lion pelts for which their kingdom was famed, the furs heavy with
moisture from the rain.

As soon as they saw Malekith approaching, the Chracians scattered,
breaking off their attack to sprint back into the woods. Not all reached
the safety of the eaves; Malekith unsheathed his sword, Avanuir, and
launched a flurry of fiery blue bolts at the retreating warriors,
slaying a handful with each detonation. The Witch King drew in more
magic and with a shout unleashed it in a broad wave. Where it struck,
the trees exploded into black flame, the fire quickly raging up the
slope, engulfing even more of the Chracian hunters. Sap exploded and
leaves turned to ash as the wave of fire continued along the
mountainside, engulfing the tents and wagons of the Chracian camps.

Sustaining the magical fire took all of Malekith’s concentration; as he
weaved his metal-clad hand back and forth the fires spread further and
further, the heat of the flames dissipating the mist as they engulfed
the mountainside. The surge of dark energy flowing through him resonated
with the runes of his armour, igniting dead nerve-endings, sending a
shiver across the metal’s plates as if it were his skin.

With an effort, the Witch King cut the flow of dark magic, pulling
himself back from the brink of intoxication. The mystical flames
guttered and died, revealing blackened stumps and bones littered across
the mountain. The clatter of armour attracted his attention and he
turned to see a squadron of knights galloping across the bridge.

‘Captain, come to me,’ Malekith said, beckoning to the elf who had been
in charge of the vanguard.

The captain came forwards, a bloodied sword in his hand, breastplate
rent open from a Chracian axe. He dropped to one knee, eyes averted.

‘My apologies, king,’ said the soldier.

He knelt trembling, head bowed, as Malekith steered Sulekh to loom over
him. The crest of the captain’s helmet fluttered with each of the
dragon’s breaths, wisps of poisonous vapour coiling from her nostrils.
The Witch King could feel the elf’s fear dripping from his shuddering
body.

‘Do not fail me again,’ said the Witch King. The captain looked up,
surprised and delighted. ‘Continue the march!’

The officer bowed and hurried away, anxious that his master might have a
sudden change of heart. In truth, the captain was ordered into the trap
by Malekith and could not be blamed. His mother might dispense summary
executions in such a situation, but her acts of spite were wasteful. The
Witch King suffered no illusions about his opponents and knew he would
need every soldier if he was to claim Ulthuan for his own.

Uncertainty keeps soldiers alert, Malekith told himself. He would not
want to become predictable.

While Malekith’s army navigated the difficult passes into Chrace,
Caledor’s host was poised to descend from the Dragon Spine mountains
into southern Tiranoc. The border was heavily fortified, the Phoenix
King’s scouts reporting a dozen citadels had been erected since the
druchii occupation had begun. Caledor would have to lay siege to each if
he was to advance on Tor Anroc.

The westerly winds brought the freshness of the sea and the spring sun
was bright as Caledor led his army out of the mountains. At the foot of
the valley were twin castles, situated at the narrowest point, a massive
iron gate between them. Flying above his army, the Phoenix King could
see more ramparts had been built into the mountainsides. Batteries of
bolt throwers were stationed to create a killing field in front of the
gate.

He signalled to Dorien to follow and instructed Maedrethnir to land on a
spur of rock just out of range of the war engines. There was frenetic
activity on the walls of the keep, a mass of soldiers boiling up to the
ramparts from their barracks within.

‘A tough proposition,’ said Dorien as his mount settled a little below
Maedrethnir’s perch. ‘This could be bloody.’

‘Yes, it could,’ replied the Phoenix King as he analysed the defences
guarding the pass.

The fortifications protecting the bolt throwers were little more than
slits in the rock, allowing no room for a dragon to land. It would be
possible to fill them with fire, but any dragon doing so would have to
fly slowly into the teeth of the war machines’ fire. Even if the outer
defences were neutralised, the keeps themselves were solidly built, and
would provide plenty of cover against dragonfire and lance. It would
take some time to build siege engines that could breach the gate.

‘How do we attack?’ asked Dorien, showing little of his usual enthusiasm
as he looked at the forbidding fortress.

‘From Lothern,’ replied Caledor.

Though the wasted march pained the Phoenix King, he had realised that it
would be far better to attack Tiranoc from the sea. As the army headed
back eastwards, Dorien confronted him in his tent one night.

‘Why did we not sail to Tiranoc from the outset?’ his brother asked.
‘Spring will nearly be summer by the time we return.’

‘I had to have a look,’ answered Caledor. ‘If we attack by ship, we must
retake Tor Anroc. A retreat to the fleet will be very dangerous. Should
we be cut off, the passes of the Annulii stand between us and sanctuary
in Ellyrion. A hard withdrawal also.’

‘And when we take Tor Anroc, what then?’ said Dorien. ‘There are druchii
outposts all over Tiranoc. We will be an island in a sea of enemies.’

‘We will not be staying,’ said Caledor. ‘We need to hold the city long
enough for Malekith to respond. When he does, we will leave and sail to
Chrace to threaten from there.’

‘Why not dispense with all of this play-acting and simply land on the
coast of Nagarythe?’ said Dorien, who had not been at the council and
had confessed some doubts over his brother’s intentions when he had been
informed.

‘Enough!’ snapped Caledor. ‘You do not tame a dragon by putting your
head between its fangs. Malekith has always known victory. When I deny
him, he will become frustrated and make mistakes. That is when we
strike, and not before.’

Dorien did not seem satisfied by Caledor’s explanation, but did not
raise the matter again on the march across Caledor and Eataine. By the
time the host arrived in Lothern, the fleet of the city was waiting for
them. It took several days to embark the army upon the eighty ships, but
the winds held fair for the journey around Ulthuan’s western coast.

Since the destruction of the captured Tiranocii ships at the siege of
Lothern, the greatest disadvantage of the druchii had been a lack of
vessels. Though they had enjoyed a brief naval ascendancy when the
colony fleet had returned, several battles along the Cothique and
Yvresse coasts had restored the advantage to Caledor’s forces.

So it was with justified confidence that the Eataine captains sailed
their vessels to the coast of Tiranoc, expecting little resistance.
Aided by pilots who knew the waters off this stretch of shore, Caledor
had selected four landing spots; isolated bays and small harbours that
were unlikely to be defended. Even if the Naggarothi left their port at
Galthyr the moment the fleet was spotted, it would still take them four
days of hard sailing against the prevailing winds to reach the closest
landing. By then, Caledor was determined to be at the walls of Tor
Anroc.

As the Phoenix King had expected, the landings went unopposed. Five
thousand knights and four times that number of infantry marched east
along the neglected roads of Tiranoc, converging on the capital from the
west and south. They encountered a few small garrisons, most of whom
tried to flee upon seeing the approaching army but were chased down by
the dragon riders.

The people of Tiranoc were in jubilant mood, crowding the roads and
villages to welcome their liberators. Unlike Cothique, the Khainites had
not been let loose and the kingdom was for the most part prosperous.
That was not to say the druchii occupiers had been gentle or subtle in
their domination; Caledor heard many woeful tales of their oppression as
he passed through towns and hamlets thronged with cheering and singing
crowds.

Eager to press on, he found little time for the celebrations that were
thrown in his honour, and even less time for the local dignitaries that
threw them. Every delay niggled at the Phoenix King’s patience. Grateful
Tiranocii filled the roads and slowed the march and it was five days
before the army sighted Tor Anroc.

Unsure of the enemy’s strength, Caledor spent a day scouting the city
and surrounding countryside from the back of Maedrethnir. The other
dragons he sent north and east to look for druchii armies on the march,
along with Thyriol and Finreir on their pegasi and a prince of Yvresse,
Namillon, who rode a white-feathered griffon. The flying patrols spied
no druchii force larger than a company, while Caledor’s inspection of
the city’s defences was curtailed by a hail of bolts from the towers as
Maedrethnir swept over the city.

Though not one of the great fortresses of Ulthuan like Anlec, Tor Achare
or Tor Caled, Tor Anroc was still an imposing city. The capital of
Tiranoc, once the seat of the Phoenix King, was built atop a
white-stoned hill that was bordered by steep cliffs facing west towards
the approaching army. About the foothills of the mount were white
buildings roofed with red tiles, some of them abandoned and half-ruined.
They nestled amongst poorly kept fields that were dotted with wooden
sheds that had not been built when Caledor had last visited. The stench
and swarms of flies revealed the purpose of these outhouses: abattoirs
where meat was still hanging on the hooks, recently deserted.

There was only one approach to the city, from the east. Caledor split
his army and they circled north and south around Tor Anroc. Knowing that
there were likely secret tunnels through the rock of the mound, the
Phoenix King left several companies camped beside the cliffs, far enough
away to be out of bolt thrower range but close enough to keep watch on
the cliff sides.

From the east the city looked even more spectacular, though its white
walls were marred with cracks and swathes of unpainted plaster and fresh
stone. Caledor regretted his abortive attempt to enter from the
mountains, judging that the defences had been shored up with the
forewarning that the expedition had given the druchii. He dismissed his
worries; there was nothing he could do to change the past.

Spearing straight across the landscape from the mountains to the east, a
road of pitted hexagonal tiles ran up to the closed gate. Wide enough
for five chariots abreast, the wood and iron of the massive portal were
exposed, the plates of gold that had once gleamed in the sun stolen by
the city’s invaders. A great gatehouse barred the approach to the city,
a bastion upon a wall twice the height of an elf that arched backwards
into the mount itself, all carved from the naked rock. Two pale towers
flanked the roadway, devoid of openings except for high arrow slits that
looked upon every approach. On each of the flat tower tops stood a bolt
thrower, mounted upon an assembly of bars and thin ropes so that they
could be swung with ease in any direction.

Beyond the gate, the road split and spiralled east and west towards the
city proper. From high walls, the black and purple flags of Nagarythe
flew on banner poles, the spring wind teasing out the long pennants.
There were other more grisly decorations; the heads of elves hanging
from chains and impaled atop spears, and skeletons and half-rotted
carcasses sealed in gibbets that stirred in the breeze. Towers and
citadels carved from the white rock broke above the curving
crenellations of the curtain wall, but these in turn were dwarfed by a
central spire that pierced the morning sky like a shining needle.

Once that tower had burned with a blue flame, signalling the occupation
of the Phoenix King. Now the palace of Bel Shanaar was in disrepair.
Even from outside the city Caledor could see broken windows, sagging
tiled roofs and crumbling balconies. While he had held no deep affection
for Bel Shanaar, to see the legacy of the city he had built so shamed
brought the Phoenix King’s ire to the surface and he snapped orders at
his commanders to make camp either side of the road.

The elves erected their pavilions in the ruins of walled orchards, where
rows of apple and cherry trees were breaking into blossom, a strangely
bright and cheerful apparition amongst the aura of gloom that seemed to
emanate from the occupied city. Caledor’s household erected his tent in
the grounds of a farm protected by high walls of white stone overgrown
with creeping plants, the gateways empty, the silver and gold gates that
had once lined the road taken like those of Tor Anroc.

Little was left of the summer manses of Tiranoc’s nobles. Many of the
white towers that stood atop the surrounding hills were tumbled or
blackened with soot. Caledor despatched companies to investigate each of
these, in case they harboured enemies that could launch raids from
behind the siege lines.

Caledor also sent a large company to the wooded hills north of the city;
Chracian woodsmen and artisans from Lothern. They were to fell timber
and construct the siege engines that would be needed to assault the
city.

As rows of red and white and blue tents rose up in a second city around
Tor Anroc, Caledor summoned his princes and captains to discuss his
plans for the initial attack.

Far to the north, the druchii pressed on towards Tor Achare. Villages
and towns had fallen to their advance, and another was about to.
Spearheads clattered harmlessly from Malekith’s iron skin, as dozens of
Chracians tried to surround the Witch King. He swept his flaming sword
from left to right, parting spears, shearing through shields and
slashing through armour and flesh. Stepping over the burning bodies of
the dead warriors, the Witch King drove his sword through the shield and
chest of another foe. Overhead, Sulekh flew back and forth, clouds of
green vapour billowing from her maw as she hunted through the narrow
streets of the town. The black dragon landed atop a row of houses, the
roofs buckling under her weight.

Another group of Chracians dashed from a side street, axes swinging.
Malekith blocked their blows with his massive shield, the rune of Khaine
on its surface blazing with baleful energy. With a growl, he smashed his
sword through a handful of attackers, separating limbs and heads with
one blow. As the Witch King’s warriors advanced up the street, the
Chracians fell back, disappearing into a warren of gardens and alleys.

Striding after them, the Witch King noticed an elf crawling into the
shadow of a collapsed wall. He sheathed Avanuir and dulled the flames of
his armour before reaching down and seizing the Chracian by his ankle.
Dragging the unfortunate elf across the rubble, Malekith released his
grip on the elf’s leg and seized hold of his breastplate, lifting him
from the ground.

‘Where are they hiding?’ growled the Witch King.

The Chracian said nothing, his face a mask of defiance. The elf did not
even attempt to struggle, but hung limply in Malekith’s grasp, blood
spilling from a wound in his shoulder. The metal of the Chracian’s
breastplate buckled and tore as the Witch King tightened his grip.

‘Where is Imrik?’

‘King Caledor will fight you when he chooses,’ replied the Chracian. ‘He
has more important things to attend to.’

With a snarl, Malekith hurled the elf against the collapsed wall. The
Chracian’s broken body crumpled to the ground, neck snapped.

‘Kill everyone, destroy everything,’ the Witch King bellowed.

He turned away from the fighting, seeking to calm himself and master the
frustration that boiled within him. For the whole of the spring he had
fought his way across the mountains. Every valley and peak had been a
struggle for his army. Never gathering in one place, the Chracians had
gnawed at his army like rats, emerging from their holes to nibble away
at his troops before scuttling back to their lairs. It mattered not how
many towns he burned, how many villages he put to the sword, his enemies
refused to meet him in true battle.

Only the day before he had received word that the Anars were raiding the
supply caravans to the west. Companies sent to forage in the woods came
back bloodied from ambushes. They had broken the bridges across the
­raging rivers and blocked the roads with felled trees. None of their
actions could halt his advance, and even the casualties they inflicted
were tolerable, but the disruption and delays were a source of constant
irritation.

As he watched Sulekh ripping down the tower of a noble’s manse, Malekith
pushed back his anger and reviewed the situation. Despite the Chracians’
tactics, he was less than five days’ march from Tor Achare. The plains
of northern Chrace were open before him. Caledor would have no choice
but to meet him there. The alternative was to allow Tor Achare to fall,
giving Malekith a stronghold from which to launch further attacks into
the Inner Kingdoms and the east; even Caledor could see the folly of
allowing an enemy such a fortress.

A strange whispering distracted the Witch King. He sensed an odd flow in
the winds of magic: a daemonic presence. Turning to his right, he saw
the flames of a burning cottage glowing red and purple. As he watched,
the fires coalesced into a diminutive figure. It jumped down from the
pile of burning timbers, awkward and lopsided, stubby wings trailing
sparks from its back. Its face was beaked, though the daemon’s features
constantly shifted, the number of eyes and mouths changing from moment
to moment in the dancing flames.

It padded forwards, gangling arms swaying like branches in a wind, pink
smoke bubbling from its fiery body, a line of little ash footprints left
across the slabs of the street. Stopping just in front of Malekith, it
squatted down and looked up at the Witch King with a scowl.

‘I have been bid to deliver you a message,’ the creature said, its
annoyance obvious.

‘Then deliver it,’ said Malekith.

‘The glorious Morathi, queen of the elves, mistress of the black
spheres, sends warning,’ said the daemon, the words delivered in a bored
monotone. ‘The treacherous Imrik and his followers have laid siege to
Tor Anroc. She of the Thousand and One Dark Blessings entreats you to
make haste to lift the siege lest the southern border of Nagarythe be
threatened.’

The daemon stood up and turned away.

‘Wait!’ snapped Malekith. ‘I have a reply for you to take to Anlec.’

‘I never agreed to a reply,’ said the daemon, not looking back. ‘Take it
yourself.’

With a growl, Malekith extended his hand, fingers splayed. Magic
twisted, forming a net of barbed darkness that surrounded the daemon. It
squealed and tried to run back to the flames that had birthed it, but
Malekith tugged back his hand, dragging the infernal creature across the
road.

‘Even one of insubstantial form such as you can suffer a multitude of
torments,’ Malekith told the creature. The daemon howled and squirmed as
the dark net tightened and lifted into the air, guided by a gesture from
the Witch King. Malekith closed his fingers a fraction and the daemon
screamed as black thorns dug into its flaming body. ‘All I have to do is
close my fist.’

‘All right!’ wailed the daemon. ‘What is the message? I shall take it to
Anlec.’

‘To the sorceress Morathi, delivered to her alone, my words exactly,’
said Malekith.

‘Of course,’ replied the fire-daemon. ‘Your exact words. I swear.’

‘Tell Morathi that I have received her message,’ said the Witch King.
‘She is to send ten companies from the Anlec garrison to fortresses on
the Naganar. She is to do nothing else without my command.’

‘Don’t trust her not to go charging off?’ laughed the daemon.

Malekith tightened his fingers and the daemon let out a piercing
screech.

‘I did not ask for your opinion,’ said the Witch King. ‘Deliver my
message and return to the realm that spawned you.’

‘I will, I promise!’

Malekith released the spell and the daemon fluttered down to the road
like a burning leaf. Grumbling and muttering, it shuffled back to the
burning building and climbed within the flames. It turned to Malekith
and made an offensive gesture of contempt, before melting into the fires
with a cackle.

The Witch King stared into the flames long after the daemon disappeared,
weighing up his options. Imrik was making a gamble, believing Malekith
would not be willing to give up Tor Anroc for Tor Achare. For that to
work, the usurper would have to convince Malekith that he was willing to
use Tiranoc to attack Nagarythe directly. The Witch King doubted Imrik
had the mettle for such an assault. The sensible thing to do would be to
proceed with the capture of Tor Achare to call Imrik’s bluff.

However, a shadow of doubt crossed Malekith’s mind. To capture Tor
Achare was a simple matter, to keep it was another. It was vulnerable to
attack from Avelorn, Ellyrion, Cothique and Saphery, not to mention a
possible landing on the coast. Perhaps Imrik really was willing to
sacrifice Chrace in the knowledge that occupying the kingdom would
weaken the defences of Nagarythe. He had allowed Cothique to fall
beneath the blades of the Khainites, and that demonstrated a ruthless
nature Malekith could admire.

He wracked his brain for a third alternative, a means by which he would
force Imrik into battle. The Isle of the Flame sprang to the Witch
King’s mind, but was quickly dismissed; he had not nearly enough ships
for an expedition across the Inner Sea. Lothern was a similarly valued
prize, but was too far away from Nagarythe for an extended campaign
without possession of Tiranoc.

Tor Achare or Tor Anroc? The question nagged at Malekith as he sent word
for his commanders to attend him. Push on to the capital of Chrace and
subjugate the east, risking an invasion of Nagarythe? Another factor
entered his thoughts: Morathi. He could not wholly trust her to be
obedient to his wishes. It would take some time to capture Tor Achare,
leaving his mother to make her own schemes. She would take it as a
personal affront that Imrik threatened Nagarythe and would respond. Such
a reaction would be reckless, committing Malekith to a war both in
Chrace and Tiranoc.

The runes of the Witch King’s armour glowed white hot as his anger
returned, stoked by Imrik’s cowardly plans and his own uncertainty.
Malekith’s subordinates converged on the central square of the town as
buildings burned and the fighting continued. They kept some distance
away, eyes narrowed against the fiery glare of their master.

With a deep growl of annoyance, Malekith made his decision. He could not
allow Imrik to recapture Tor Anroc, but there was no reason to take the
circuitous route back through Nagarythe.

‘Rally the army,’ he told his commanders. ‘We head south, to Ellyrion.’

The streets of Tor Anroc rang with the clash of battle. The smoke-choked
tunnel-roads of the city were packed with spearmen of both sides, while
about the palace the dragons of Caledor laid waste to the citadel’s
defenders with claw, fang and flame. The great doors of the palace were
barred, but Tor Anroc’s central spire had not been designed as a bastion
of war. Druchii warriors on tiered balconies fired volleys from their
repeater crossbows, while the Phoenix King’s mages hurled lightning
bolts and balls of fire through the high windows into the halls within.
Stained glass was ­shattered, tapestries and curtains burned.

Black-clad soldiers dashed from one of the tunnels leading into the
palace square, pursued by the silent Phoenix Guard, their halberd blades
slick with blood. After them came Caledor’s favoured White Lions, who
broke towards the noble houses surrounding the plaza, which had been
quickly fortified by druchii defenders. A swathe of spearmen and archers
followed, pushing towards the palace doors.

Maedrethnir settled on the roof of a tower overlooking the west gardens,
where bolt throwers unleashed hails of spears from behind ornamental
hedges and beneath blossoming fruit trees. Claws scraping gouges across
the stained stones, the dragon launched himself at a battery of the
engines situated behind a white-painted wall. Sweeping overhead, he
bathed the lawn with flame, setting fire to mountain roses and
sunpetals, scorching grass that had once been carefully tended by a
small army of gardeners.

Stowing his lance and unhooking his harness, Caledor dropped from the
back of his mount, landing sure-footed beside a shallow pool that gently
steamed, dead fish floating on the surface. A shadow swept over him as
Dorien’s dragon flew past, bathing the roof of the great hall with fire.

The Phoenix King drew his sword and ran up to the glass-panelled doors
that stretched along one wall of a feasting hall. He dimly remembered
eating in the long chamber as his armoured boot crashed against a lock
and sent the door crashing from its hinges. Plunging inside, he found
broken furniture barricading the doors into the rest of the palace.
Lathrain cut through the upturned tables and chairs with ease, and
within moments Caledor was through the door into the corridors of the
palace proper.

He headed north towards the great staircase that led to the upper
levels. The gallery was deserted, the sounds of battle outside muted as
his boots rang on the marble floor. Busts of Tiranocii princes sat in
alcoves on either side, each broken and defaced by the druchii.

As he reached the entrance chamber, he came across a group of druchii
guarding the main doors. They turned at his approach, swords and shields
raised. Lathrain blazed as Caledor cut them down, even as a deafening
boom sounded from the doors. Twice the massive portal shook. On the
third, the oak doors exploded inwards, filling the entrance hall with
splinters that rattled from the Phoenix King’s armour. In the smoke and
dust, Caledor saw a slender figure approach.

It was Thyriol, his raised staff glowing with power. The mage’s eyes
were alight with golden energy, his skin writhed with magic. His pale
hair surrounded his head like a nimbus, streaming with its own life.

‘I thought it polite to knock,’ said the Sapherian prince, smiling.

As the mage stepped over the threshold, more of Caledor’s followers
poured up the steps, their war cries echoing around the large hall.
Caledor led them up the eastern staircase, heading towards the royal
apartments where Bel Shanaar and his family had once lived.

Footfalls muffled by the thick carpets, the Phoenix King and his
warriors moved from chamber to chamber, searching for foes. They found
much evidence of the druchii’s depravity: trophies taken from victims,
tomes of evil prayers, fetishes of the cytharai adorned each apartment.

Coming to the chambers of the former Phoenix King, Caledor kicked open
the door, sword in hand. The apartment was empty of the living, but two
bodies lay sprawled near the window. The elves, one male and one female,
were dressed in the finest robes and jewellery. Flopped over a low
couch, their faces were painted pale, eyes surrounded by dark kohl, lips
black. A broken crystal phial lay on the floor close by and Caledor
could smell the distinctive scent of black lotus.

‘Cowards,’ the Phoenix King said with a sneer.

There was a fire in the grate, books and parchments used as fuel.
Crossing the chamber, Caledor saw a pool of blood leaking from the door
leading to the bedchambers. Steeling himself, he opened the door.

On a blood-soaked bed lay three children, the oldest no more than
fifteen years. They too were dressed in rich robes and gems. On the
floor around the bed were the bodies of five more elves, garbed as
servants, their throats slit. Disgusted, Caledor turned away, slamming
the door closed.

Feeling sickened, he tossed Lathrain onto a table and slumped into a
padded chair. The city was his, the capture of the palace a certainty.
He could let others do the fighting for a while. Exhaustion tugged at
his mind and body. Closing his eyes, he drifted into a light sleep.

He awoke to find Dorien standing over him, a grim smile on his brother’s
lips.

‘We are victorious,’ said Dorien. ‘The druchii are all slain.’

‘Good,’ said Caledor.

He hauled himself to his feet, retrieved his sword and strode to one of
the windows opening onto the royal balcony. Dorien followed him out onto
the white parapet, which offered a magnificent view of the city. From
here, high in the palace, the breaches in the wall looked small. The
bodies littering the square below merged together, druchii and loyalist
heaped alongside each other in death. Fires burned across the city and a
column of elves were streaming down the roads and out of the shattered
gate.

‘A sorry sight,’ said Dorien. ‘Bel Shanaar’s legacy has been humbled.’

‘Better Tor Anroc than Tor Caled,’ said Caledor, leaning on the
balustrade.

‘True,’ replied his brother. ‘I am sure Bel Shanaar would understand.
Let us hope that Tor Achare has not suffered a similar fate.’

The Phoenix King did not reply, his attention drawn to a shape against
the clouds to the east. As it neared the city, it resolved itself into a
pegasus and rider. It was Anamatheir, one of Thyriol’s adepts. The mage
flew straight for the palace.

‘Such haste cannot bring good news,’ said Dorien, following his
brother’s gaze.

Driven on by their relentless master, the druchii surged south through
Avelorn and into Ellyrion. Day and night the army marched; a winding
serpent of black and gold in the sun; a ghostly line of torch and lamp
by moonlight.

The army did not burn, did not slaughter. Ellyrion was not the Witch
King’s target, though he faced a difficult decision as he approached
Eagle Pass. Two days east lay Tor Elyr. It was an easy target, with no
wall or keep, no bastions or towers. For that reason, it was also a
worthless target. The destruction of the city would take several days
for no reward save the misery of Finudel and Athielle. Tor Elyr was not
a capital like Anlec or Lothern; the Ellyrians spent most of the year
with the herds, and even the nobility spent all but winter in camps
spread across the plains. Though it would add only six days to the
march, the city’s destruction would be a distraction, one that might
allow Imrik to escape.

Malekith’s decision did not sit well with his commanders, who had spent
a fruitless spring chasing Chracians and being ambushed. Their protests
were not voiced, but the Witch King could tell by their sullen
demeanours and pointed silence that they did not approve. He did not
care one bit. Any that spoke against him, openly or in secret, would
betray their lack of loyalty and would be dealt with accordingly.

The army turned west and marched for Eagle Pass and Tor Anroc.

That spring signalled the course of the next stage of the civil war.
Malekith force-marched his army across Tiranoc, only to find the capital
abandoned by Caledor and his troops, the ancient city deserted save for
vermin. The Phoenix King’s army travelled north on the Lothern fleet,
raiding Galthyr in the midsummer before they moved eastwards and landed
in Chrace to reinforce Tor Achare.

Rather than chase his elusive enemy, the Witch King set about rebuilding
the fortifications of Tor Anroc. From here he could easily move north to
counter any invasion of Nagarythe, whilst threatening Caledor and
Ellyrion. Morathi joined her son as summer became autumn, riding south
with a caravan of cultists and other strange elves. Malekith was not of
a mood to welcome her in extravagant style and refused her
thousands-strong entourage entrance to the city.

Furious, Morathi made her way to the palace of Bel Shanaar where
Malekith had formed his new headquarters. The citadel was half in ruin;
the disrepair of the druchii occupation and the damage caused by
Caledor’s forces had left whole wings as piles of rubble or burnt-out
shells. Through broken windows the setting sun streamed jagged shadows
across the floor of the throne room as Morathi entered.

‘Why must my people live like cattle in the fields?’ she demanded,
striding across the cracked slabs.

‘There is little enough room in the city for my army,’ replied Malekith.
He sat on the broken remnants of Bel Shanaar’s throne, the wood
blackened by his armour. ‘If they do not find conditions to their
liking, they can return to Nagarythe.’

‘It is an irritation that I must come here at all,’ said the sorceress.
‘Why do you dally here, when you could be marching south to Caledor?’

‘Do not think to advise me on strategy, mother,’ said the Witch King,
the visor of his helm glowing with pale flame.

‘And yet I find I must do just that,’ said Morathi. She sought amongst
the broken and burned furniture for an intact seat and eventually found
a bench. Righting it, she sat down, legs crossed, her eyes fixed on her
son. ‘Why do you waste your time in this hovel?’

‘I cannot invade Caledor,’ Malekith said, resting gauntleted hands on
his knees. ‘We have been fortunate that more dragons have not woken.
Should Sulekh and her spawn enter the mountains, I am sure the other
dragons would be roused by it. There is another reason. The moment I
cross into Caledor, Imrik will surely set out from Tor Achare to take
Anlec. Do you desire that I swap my father’s palace for that of the
Dragontamer?’

Morathi’s scowl was deep but she had no quick answer to Malekith’s
taunting question. She tapped black-painted nails on the pale surface of
the bench, small sparks of dark magic flickering between her fingertips
to earth themselves in the wood.

‘What is it that you intend?’ she said eventually. ‘Surely you do have a
plan?’

‘I have a strategy, but it will not be swift,’ said the Witch King.
‘While Imrik has his fleet, he can move much faster, along the coast or
across the Inner Sea. If I march on Chrace through Ellyrion he will move
back to Tiranoc. If I advance through Tiranoc and Nagarythe, he will
come south via Avelorn into Ellyrion or Saphery.’

Malekith raised a finger and drew a circle of smoke and fire in the air.

‘I could spend eternity chasing Imrik around Ulthuan and never catch
him.’

‘Then we are at an impasse,’ said Morathi, speaking as if the words
pained her to say. ‘Imrik is willing to leave any kingdom to our mercy,
and we can hold no place hostage to force him to battle. Yet he will not
fight us directly, and so neither side can achieve a lasting victory.’

‘It is a duel,’ said Malekith. He laughed, a harsh metallic noise that
rang coldly around the empty hall. ‘Feint and thrust, parry and
counter-attack. The first to flinch, to blink, to make a mistake will
lose.’

‘I hear you say a lot, but I am no wiser regarding your plans,’ said
Morathi. ‘How will you break the deadlock?’

The Witch King stood and approached his mother, dimming the flames of
his armour so that he could stand over her. He reached down a hand and
graciously helped Morathi to her feet.

‘What is this weakness?’ she asked. ‘What have you seen? One of the
princes, perhaps? One who can be turned to our cause?’

‘No, they are all loyal to Imrik,’ said Malekith. ‘Imrik is the weak
link in the chain.’

‘You are mistaken,’ said Morathi. ‘He is considered by some to almost be
your equal. Nonsense, of course, but he is not without intelligence and
skill.’

‘I have no doubt that eventually I would prove myself superior, but the
world might turn an age before that happens,’ said Malekith. He walked
towards the doors, Morathi hurrying to keep up with the long strides of
her son. ‘He is the finest of the princes, in battle and as a leader.
That is why our enemies look to him, why they follow him. That shall be
their undoing’

‘Our foes have one weakness, one chink in their armour to exploit,’ said
Morathi, gaining understanding of Malekith’s intent. ‘They rely on
Imrik. It is his stubbornness and his bravery that keepS them fighting.’

‘Precisely,’ said the Witch King. He stopped and picked up a lump of
masonry that had fallen from the vaulted ceiling. It turned to powder as
he closed his fist. ‘Without him, resistance will crumble. Imrik knows
that he cannot defeat me and seeks to destroy my army piece by piece. I
know that I cannot destroy his army if I cannot catch it. So, I will
march to and fro, keeping his eyes on me, testing the resolve of his
allies. His determination to avoid open battle will be his weakness. I
am not so proud that he must die by my hand. There are many ways to slay
a foe.’

Morathi smiled as Malekith thrust open the doors to the hall and stepped
into the antechamber. The Witch King’s voice filled the room.

‘Kill Imrik and we will win the war!’
