
SEVEN 

An Alliance Forged

With the shaggoth slain and their goblin allies routed or slaughtered,
the beastmen had little stomach for the continuing battle and quickly
slunk back into the woods. Neither elf nor dwarf was prepared to venture
after them, the dwarfs knowing they would never catch their swifter
foes, the elves utterly undone by the shaman’s spell and the shaggoth’s
attack.

It was a much slower and wearier march back to Karaz-a-Karak for
Malekith. His whole body ached and his back and arm flared with pain
every time he took a step. The dwarfs offered to carry him upon one of
the war machine limbers, but Malekith refused such indignity. Agonising
though it was, he walked alongside the dwarfs, hiding his pain as best
he could.

It was a source of pride that those of his warriors still capable of
standing did likewise, though seven of them were so badly wounded that
he allowed them to be carried on the wagons. The bodies of nineteen
others were carried with dignity amongst the dwarfen dead.

The dwarfs were similarly determined to prove their resilience, though a
good many had suffered broken bones and deep cuts. Bandaged and
hobbling, they marched back to the capital with their heads held high,
as high as any dwarf’s head could ever reach.

Malekith spent most of those following days with the High King, and was
pleased that the heroic display of his warriors and himself had earned
much respect in Snorri’s eyes. Snorri was much more talkative, and
seemed eager that the coming negotiations went well.

To cheers and great clamour, the throng returned to Karaz-a-Karak and
strode through the gates. The dwarfs chanted Snorri’s name and came
forwards to congratulate their returning warriors. The elves were
greeted with similar enthusiasm and were presented with all manner of
small gifts and tokens of the dwarfs’ appreciation by wide-eyed
beardlings and smiling dwarf maidens.

That same night, the High King hosted a banquet for the victorious army,
and lavished his warriors and the elves with food and beer. He bid
Malekith the honour of sitting at his right-hand side, and gave the
prince his own royal drinking tankard. There were many toasts raised,
and more speeches, though on this occasion Malekith was far more
complimentary to his hosts than he had been in Karak Kadrin. He thanked
the dwarfs for their hospitality­ and spoke of their courage and honour.
He pledged his lifelong friendship to their people, and swore an oath of
brotherhood with the High King.

This last was a great occasion and marked the dwarfs’ absolute
acceptance of the elves as their comrades and friends. Whatever the
negotiations and trade talks would bring, Malekith now knew that he
would forever be an ally of Snorri, and found himself glad that this was
so, not only for the power and prestige this would surely bring, but
also because Malekith genuinely liked and admired the dwarfs’ ruler.

The day after the celebratory feast, Alandrian was summoned to
Malekith’s chamber. The prince gave him a very personal mission. The
lieutenant accepted his orders without question and sought out Aernuis.
He found the Eataine prince in one of the upper galleries.

‘There is something important we must discuss,’ Alandrian said with a
conspiratorial tone. ‘Come with me.’

Aernuis followed without question as the Naggarothi captain led him out
of the hold via one of the many secondary gates, and they walked out
onto a windy rampart high up the mountainside.

‘Where are we going?’ asked Aernuis finally, as Alandrian took them up a
winding stair that led up to a cliff face.

‘We cannot risk being overheard or seen,’ Alandrian confided.

Saying no more, Aernuis ascended the steps and they stood side-by-side
upon a wide ledge. Beneath them a swift river had cut a deep ravine, and
gushed over a steep fall into a pool surrounded by jagged rocks some two
hundred feet below. Spray filled the air and the roar of the water
masked all other sound.

‘What is it that you have to say?’ asked Aernuis.

‘I have a message from Prince Malekith,’ said Alandrian.

‘What is it?’ replied Aernuis.

Swifter than a striking snake, Alandrian stepped behind Aernuis and
pulled a curved blade from his belt. Grabbing the prince by the chin, he
drove the point of his blade into Aernuis’s back, cutting through his
spine. Aernuis struggled as he collapsed to his knees, his cries muffled
by Alandrian’s hand.

‘You are no longer useful to him,’ Alandrian hissed in his victim’s ear.
‘Malekith has the ear of the High King now, and he remembers the slights
against him. He is not known for his forgiving nature.’

Aernuis writhed and wept, but Alandrian’s grip was as tight as a vice.

‘My prince cannot allow you to live,’ the Naggarothi explained. ‘He
would willingly let his light shine upon your life, but he cannot share
power with you. You are beneath him, and your petty ambition would
undermine all that he hopes to build.’

The Eataine prince flailed at his assassin but Alandrian easily batted
away his grasping fingers. Without any hint of pleasure or regret, the
Naggarothi drew his knife across Aernuis’s throat and pushed him from
the ledge. He stepped forwards to watch the body tumble into the spume.
The trail of arterial blood spewing from the wound was soon swallowed up
by the fury of the waterfall. Tossing the blade casually after the
Eataine prince’s corpse, Alandrian turned back towards the stair. He
wondered where he might find Sutherai.

Fifteen days later, the audience chamber of Snorri was filled with a
crowd of dwarfs and elves. Though ostensibly mingling and getting to
know each other, the two peoples were keeping to their own and only a
few brave souls of either race ventured over to talk to the opposite
delegation. The High King sat upon his throne and watched all of this
with amusement, Malekith stood upon his right.

‘It is a shame that your two companions are not here to witness the
culmination of their efforts,’ Snorri remarked.

‘A shame indeed,’ Malekith replied without pause. ‘I cannot comprehend
what possessed them to venture from the city without an escort.’

‘Nor I,’ said Snorri.

Malekith detected no hint of accusation in the High King’s voice, though
perhaps the prince’s ignorance of the dwarfish language masked some
implication in the words.

‘I am glad that their disappearance has not caused problems for the
negotiations,’ Malekith said smoothly. ‘It is good that their sudden
departure has not formed unfounded suspicions between us. Such an
occurrence could have unravelled many months of careful planning.’

‘Do you think there is cause for suspicion?’ said Snorri, turning a
questioning eye upon the prince.

‘I think not, but I can see how one might view such matters with
suspicion. I do not think that there is any conspiracy at work. Prince
Aernuis has long been in self-exile and perhaps the impending talks got
the better of his nerve.’

‘Whatever his reasons, he is probably troll-fodder by now,’ said Snorri,
returning his attention to the throng below. ‘Or worse.’

‘A regrettable end for a prince of Ulthuan,’ said Malekith.

They both allowed the hubbub of the hall to wash over them for a while
until Malekith felt the need to break the silence.

‘Shall we join our parties and bring them together?’ the prince said.

‘Yes, let’s get this pony moving,’ said Snorri, stepping from his
throne.

For more than a year the talks between the elves and dwarfs progressed,
and there were many treaties signed and oaths sworn on both sides. While
the rulers and diplomats haggled, the common people of both races got on
with the business of the actual trade, reaching local agreements and
personal bargains with their opposites.

Malekith recovered from his wounds in time to see the negotiations
concluded. Once fit again, he divided his time between Athel Toralien
and Karaz-a-Karak, and led the elves to numerous celebrated victories
over the creatures of darkness. Bel Shanaar sent the prince a mighty
gift in recognition of his achievements: a white dragon from the
mountains of Caledor. As his father had done in the time of the daemons,
Malekith led the armies of the elves from atop this mighty beast and his
foes fell before him. Many times more over the following centuries did
the prince of Nagarythe march forth beside the High King, and their
friendship was a symbol of the unity between the races of elf and dwarf.

The alliance with the dwarfs heralded the golden age of the elves; their
colonies spread across the globe and the wealth of distant lands flowed
into their coffers. Their fleets travelled wherever the elves’ desires
took them, and cities of gleaming marble and alabaster rose up in the
wildernesses of the world.

From Ulthuan the elves spread to every corner of the world, settling in
the steaming jungles of Lustria, the savage forests across the great
ocean, and upon volcanic isles in the east. The cities of Ulthuan grew
with the empire, so that even the meekest of their kind lived in grand
mansions amidst great luxury. Everything from the sea to the mountains
became the domain of the elves, and in the peaks the dwarfs reigned
supreme, their own empire growing vast upon the spoils of the alliance.

Only one land remained free of elvish influence. Eastwards, beyond the
mountains of the dwarfs, lay the blasted wastes of the Dark Lands. No
elf wished to venture further east, for there was plenty enough for both
peoples to enjoy and the dwarfs warned that there was nothing but death
and misery in the barren desert.

Thus the elves named the high peaks Saraeluii: the Mountains at the Edge
of the World. Truly they were masters of all that they surveyed. Their
armies marched at will under the command of the princes, and the evil
orc and goblin tribes, vile beastmen warbands and unnameable Chaos
creatures were driven into the far north.

Only here, at the very roof of the world, would the elves not venture.
It was here that the Realm of Chaos touched upon the world, disgorging
its tide of magical energy, warping and corrupting the lands. Having
suffered greatly at the hands of daemons before, the elves had no desire
to war against the Dark Powers upon the doorstep of their otherworldly
realm, and were content to corral the nightmare mutants and monsters
upon the bleak ice and keep them from the cities in the south.

Malekith found that his spirit was not quelled by these battles, for his
foes were now of little threat, scattered remnants of the huge tribes
and armies that had once made the woods their homes. His dragon was
slain by a monstrous giant whilst the Naggarothi fought against the last
great horde of orcs to beset the elves’ lands, and with reluctance the
prince realised an age had ended. Elthin Arvan had been tamed, and with
that his chance for greater renown would ebb away. So it was that
Malekith finally turned his attention to the north, and first went into
the cold lands of the Chaos Wastes.
