
ONE 

The Young Hunter

In the days of the first Phoenix King, Aenarion the Defender founded the
realm of Nagarythe in the harsh north of Ulthuan. Under his reign the
Naggarothi – as Aenarion’s people were called – studied long the arts of
war and forged a formidable army to defeat the daemons of Chaos.

At Anlec, greatest fortress of the elves, Aenarion held court with his
queen, Morathi, and they brought into the world their son, Malekith.
Aenarion fell at the very moment of his victory and the rule of
Nagarythe passed to his son. Prince Malekith formalised the promises of
his father and secured the lands and wealth of the many princes who had
fought by Aenarion’s side. Yet, ever a warrior and a wanderer, Malekith
departed for new wars in the colonies.

Second only to the great Caledor Dragontamer in Aenarion’s esteem was
Eoloran Anar, the Phoenix King’s standard bearer. To his stewardship
Malekith gave the lands of eastern Nagarythe in the hills and mountains
of the Annulii. In Aenarion and Malekith’s name Eoloran would rule, and
there was peace and prosperity for an age.

Eoloran was a wise prince and was content to raise the power and
privilege of House Anar without conflict, though he sent his son Eothlir
to fight in the colonies for a time so that he might know something of
war. His wife having died in the war with the daemons, Eoloran became
reclusive, though always ready to answer the calls of the lesser nobles
of Nagarythe. Other, more ambitious princes grew in renown and the deeds
of Eoloran faded from memory except within the halls of Elanardris.

With Malekith gone from Nagarythe to conquer new realms for the elves,
the seed was sown for division. Jealous of the power granted to Eoloran,
though he did not wield it often, Morathi wove tangled politics to
isolate the Anars from the rest of Ulthuan while all the while
strengthening her grip upon Anlec and Nagarythe. It was not a topic
Eoloran wished to discuss with his family, who were left to wonder what
the ancient elf planned to revive his family’s fortunes, or if he had
any plan at all. He forbade any of the Anars from visiting Anlec and
instead was content to petition his fellow lords with letters reminding
them of their support from the Anars in centuries past and their ancient
vows to one another. Eoloran’s son, Eothlir, tried as best he could to
maintain the status of House Anar, but he knew that there was a change
coming. He could not define what it was that alarmed him; it was a
flicker in the corner of the eye, a sound on the edge of hearing, a
distant scent on the wind that cautioned him.

It was the Season of Frost, in the one thousand and forty-second year of
the reign of Phoenix King Bel Shanaar. At the home of the Anars, the
wind had turned north and brought with it the chill of winter down from
the mountains. Snow flurries drifted from the highest peaks in long,
fluttering streamers of white. The furthest reaches of the pine forests
were dusted with snow as the bitter weather crept down the mountainsides
day by day. Maieth was wrapped in a long shawl of dark blue wool as she
stood in the gardens of the Anars’ manse. Eothlir, her husband, placed
an arm around her and smiled.

‘There is a warm fire within, why do you stand outside in the cold?’ he
asked.

‘Listen,’ she said. They both stood in silence, and the only sound to be
heard was the sighing of the wind. Then, faintly, there was a call, the
croak of a crow.

‘A single crow in winter,’ said Eothlir. ‘A bad omen, do you think?’

‘Yes,’ she replied. ‘Though no more an omen than a houseful of sudden
guests come here from Anlec seeking sanctuary.’

‘It is but a temporary arrangement,’ said Eothlir. ‘One day Prince
Malekith will return. He will rein in Morathi’s excesses. We must be
patient.’

‘Excesses?’ laughed Maieth, with bitterness not humour. ‘Butchery and
perversion are not “excesses”!’

‘There are those who protect her, you know that,’ said Eothlir. ‘But
there are as many who see her rule as tyranny and resist her.’

‘When?’ demanded Maieth, pulling herself free from her husband’s arms to
stare at him. ‘For many years they have done nothing; we have done
nothing.’

‘She is the mother of the Prince of Nagarythe, the bride of Aenarion; it
would be treason to move against her directly,’ said Eothlir. ‘For the
moment it is sufficient that we rule our lands and keep them free of her
taint. If she tries to take our power overtly, she will find greater
resistance than she expects.’

‘And what of Tharion, Faerghil, Lohsteth and the others who now sleep in
our beds, afraid of returning to Anlec?’ asked Maieth. ‘Are they not
also princes of Nagarythe? Do you realise that they once thought that
Morathi would never be so bold as to go against them directly?’

‘Would you have me a traitor and usurper?’ snapped Eothlir. ‘Or worse,
would you be a widow, and your son fatherless? In Anlec, Morathi holds
sway, but here in the mountains her reach is short. She may try to pick
us off one-by-one, but as long as we are united, she cannot move against
us. Fully a third of Nagarythe’s armies are abroad with Malekith.
Another third owe allegiance to my father and his allies. Morathi cannot
conjure soldiers from thin air, no matter her powers of seeing and
scrying.’

‘Your father holds half of the warriors in Nagarythe, and yet what does
he do?’ said Maieth with scorn. ‘He hides here and writes letters. Are
we not all sons and daughters of Nagarythe? Our armies should be camped
outside the gates of Anlec, demanding restitution from Morathi for the
wrongs she has done our people.’

‘And what of Malekith, Aenarion’s heir, our rightful ruler?’ said
Eothlir, grabbing his wife by the shoulders. ‘Do you think he will look
kindly upon those that raise arms against Anlec without his consent?
Would he welcome those that threaten his mother? I tell you now, my
father would die of shame to be thought of as a traitor, and so he
rallies support in the only way he can.’

‘Hush now,’ said Maieth quickly, embracing her husband.

Turning, Eothlir saw a young elf, no more than thirty summers old,
walking down the wide steps from the mansion. He was dressed in hunting
leathers edged with dappled fur and bound with leather thongs, and in
his hands he held a slender black bow and a quiver of arrows.

‘More practice, Alith?’ called Eothlir, disentangling from his wife’s
arms. ‘You already know that there is not a lord in the mountains that
can match your eye and hand.’

‘I know nothing of the sort, Father,’ said the boy sombrely. ‘Khurion
says that his cousin from Chrace, Menhion, can strike a pinefowl in
flight at a hundred paces.’

‘Khurion says many things, my son,’ said Maieth. ‘If we believe all that
he claims, then his cousins, all four of them, would be the match for
any army in the world.’

‘I know that he exaggerates,’ said Alith. ‘However, I have made a wager
with him, to call his bluff. In the spring I will contest with Menhion,
and I shall uphold the honour of House Anar. Until then, I must practise
further while the snows still hold back.’

‘Very well, but be back before dusk,’ said Eothlir.

Alith nodded and walked away, slinging the quiver over his shoulder. He
knew that his parents thought him distant, morose even. They whispered
and fell silent when he was around, but he was observant and keen-eared
and knew that all was not well in Nagarythe. The manse was full of
refugee princes who had chosen not to support Morathi and her hideous
cults.

He also knew, perhaps even where his father and grandfather did not,
that this matter would be settled not with diplomacy but with force. He
thought much of his family for avoiding direct confrontation with the
rulers of Nagarythe, but he knew that one day he would lead House Anar
and he was determined that the manner of the world in which he ruled
would be better than that of today. Others would follow him not out of
fear, but out of respect; it was never too early to earn respect, though
often too late.

Leaving the formal gardens through a silver gate in the high hedge,
Alith strode up into the hills that heaped up higher and higher upon the
shoulder of Suril Anaris, the Mountain of the Moon. The whole mountain
and its surrounds were the lands of the Anar, granted to Alith’s
grandfather by Aenarion himself. Though inhospitable in winter, they
were abundant with game and fowl, and the lower meadows still made good
pasturing for goats and sheep. These would be his lands one day, and so
he walked them as often as possible, getting to know them as he knew the
house where he had been born.

Today he went north and east, along the Inna Varith. The cold river
flowed down from caves hidden upon the slope of Suril Anaris and fed the
lands of Elanardris with fresh water until it disappeared back
underground at the Haimeth Falls many miles to the south.

Picking his way along the winding bank, Alith watched the silver darting
of fish in the clear waters, leaping and swimming through the rocky
rapids. Needing to get to the northern side of the river the young elf
leapt nimbly from rock to rock, heedless of the torrent sweeping past
his feet, unmindful of the slicked stones upon which he stepped.

From here he found an old track that led further up into the hills,
twisting around dark boulders and leafless bushes. It was some time
before he came under the eaves of the pine forest, and set foot upon a
frosted carpet of needles. Alith’s light tread left barely a mark in the
crisp mulch as he broke into a jog, speeding swiftly under the
overlapping branches of the trees.

Alith was guided by an inner sense, attuned to the distant warmth of the
sun behind the clouds, the wind upon his face and the subtle slope of
the ground beneath him. As clearly as if he had a map, he cut eastwards
through the woods, along the flank of the mountainside. In the branches
above birds swooped to and fro while four-legged, whiskered hunters
snuffled through the patchy undergrowth, unaware of his passing. His
route brought him to an outcropping of rock that pushed several hundred
feet up through the trees, and at its foot there was a low cave. Cloud
had flowed down the mountainside and swathed the clearing with a fine
greyness that dulled colours and muted sound.

Ducking inside the gap in the rock, Alith came to a wider cavern, dark
but for the trickle of sunlight through the entrance. He reached out to
his right and his hand came upon a torch of bound branches held within a
sconce on the cave wall. He spoke a word; a spark lit within the torch’s
head and swiftly took flame. With this light, he walked further into the
cavern.

The cave opened into a wide natural nave, shaped over thousands of
years. Stalagmites and stalactites had met in ages past, forming
glittering pillars much like the columns of a grand cathedral. It was
not just a temple in appearance, for Alith had come to one of the
shrines of Kurnous, the Hunter God. The glow of the flickering brand
danced across dozens of skulls placed in niches around the cave wall: of
wolves and foxes; bears and deer; hawk and rabbit. Some were gilded,
others inscribed with delicate runes of prayer and thanks.

All were gifts to Kurnous.

Though worshipped much more in Chrace, whose hunters were renowned
throughout Ulthuan, Kurnous was still acknowledged elsewhere in those
communities that had not moved to the ever-growing cities. In Elanardris
the Hunter God was held in high esteem, the ways of the wilds not yet
swept away with the formality of Asuryan or the other gods.

It was a feral shrine, with a dirt floor scattered with dead leaves. The
walls were painted with hunting scenes, of predator chasing prey. Some
were ancient and faded; others were brighter and more recent. Alith knew
that others came here, though he had never encountered another hunter
visiting the shrine.

Alith had no such grand offering this day, though in the past he had
fashioned such sacrifices for the Wolf of the Heavens. He knelt before
the altar – a rocky plinth strewn with twigs, ash and detritus. There
was a hole bored into the rock where he set the torch, and then he
gathered up a mound of broken sticks and dried leaves. Snapping a single
brand from the torch, he lit the small fire and breathed it into greater
life. He spoke a few words of thanks and dropped the burning stem onto
the miniature pyre.

Alith then pulled something from a pouch at his belt: a thin sliver of
venison from the last deer he had slain, a dozen days ago. He skewered
the meat on a forked piece of branch and set it atop the fire where it
hissed and spat.

Alith then sat cross-legged before the altar and took his bow across his
knees. With his hands upon it, he whispered a few words to Kurnous,
thanking him for the kill he had offered and asking for grace in his
hunts to come.

Head bowed, Alith sat for a while longer in silent contemplation. He
tried to put aside his worries and focus on the hunt to come. He
pictured himself stood atop the peak of Suril Anaris, the sun bright
upon his face, the wilderness laid out before him. He pictured the
trails the animals followed; the pools where they drank; the runs where
they hunted. From within, the landscape of Suril Anaris opened up before
him. There were still many dark patches: places where Alith had not yet
travelled.

After paying due homage, Alith stood and left the cave, the venison
still burning behind him. With another word of power he quenched the
torch and placed it back in its holder ready for the next visitor; him
or another, it did not matter. Stooping low, Alith ducked out of the
cave – and then stood frozen.

Just ahead of Alith, in the thickening mist, stood a stag. It was a
monumental creature: its shoulder higher than Alith was tall, with a
spread of antlers wider than the young prince’s outstretched arms. Its
coat was white, save for a flash of black down its chest. The stag
watched Alith with deep brown eyes, neither aggressive nor alarmed.

The young elf straightened slowly and stared back. The stag bent its
head and shook its antlers, scratching at the ground with a hoof. Alith
was convinced this was some sign sent by Kurnous, but could not fathom
its meaning. The stag was becoming more agitated, and arched back its
head and let loose a long bark. Alith took a step forwards, his hand
outstretched in a placating gesture, but the stag suddenly looked to the
west and then bounded away into the forest.

Alith turned his gaze to where the stag had looked and saw a figure
beneath the eaves of the trees. He was mounted upon a black horse and
swathed in a cloak of dark feathers. The rider’s head was cowled and
nothing could be seen of his face.

Unconsciously, Alith reached for his bow, and turned his head to grasp
it from the quiver. As soon as he looked back, the rider was gone. Alith
strung an arrow and dashed across the open ground to the edge of the
trees where the rider’s horse had been. There was no mark upon the
ground, the frosted pine needles undisturbed by foot or hoof.

Two bizarre events so close together left Alith feeling unnerved, and he
glanced around the rest of the clearing but could see nothing. Taking
the arrow from his bow, he broke into a run and headed straight back
towards the manse, all thoughts of hunting forgotten.

The heir of House Anar chose not to share his two strange encounters
with his family, who had enough to contemplate without the fanciful
tales of their son. The experience faded in his memory over the winter
and spring until even he was not sure whether it had truly happened or
been some kind of waking dream. Thoughts of strange omens and mysterious
riders were replaced in the young elf’s mind with more pressing
concerns: love.

The day before midsummer, Alith savoured the warmth of the sun upon his
skin. He wore a short sleeveless gown of white silk, his face, arms and
legs exposed to the pleasant heat as he lay on his back staring up into
a cloudless sky.

‘That is not something I see too often,’ said Maieth, sat on the grassy
hill next to her son. Behind them the large manse of House Anar, capital
of Elanardris, rose up from the slope of the mountain, its white walls
bright in the sunshine. Elves were gathered in groups around the
gardens, talking and drinking, taking sweetmeats and delicacies off
trays from servants liveried in silvery grey.

‘What is that?’ asked Alith, turning to his side and resting on one
elbow.

‘A smile,’ his mother replied with one of her own.

‘I cannot be sad on a glorious day such as this,’ declared Alith. ‘Blue
skies, the glow of summer; these things cannot be touched by darkness.’

‘And?’ said Maieth with an intent look at her son. ‘There have been many
such days this year, and yet I have not seen you this happy since you
loosed your first arrow.’

‘Is it not enough that I am content?’ said Alith. ‘Why should I not be
happy?’

‘Do not be so coy, my reticent child,’ Maieth continued playfully. ‘Is
there not some other reason for this unbounded joy? Something to do with
the midsummer banquet tomorrow?’

Alith’s eyes narrowed and he sat up.

‘What have you heard?’ he asked, returning Maieth’s gaze.

‘This and that,’ his mother said with a dismissive wave of her hand. ‘I
met with Caenthras just before I came up here. You must know him; he is
the father of Ashniel.’

At the mention of the elf maiden’s name, Alith looked away. Maieth
laughed at his sudden discomfort.

‘So it is true!’ she said with a triumphant grin. ‘I take it from your
carefree happiness today, and the smitten expression you’ve worn
whenever Ashniel has been around, that she has agreed to attend the
dance with you?’

Alith’s face was one of consternation as he replied.

‘She has,’ he said. ‘Dependent on her father’s permission, of course.
What did he say to you, exactly?’

‘Only that you run around in the woods like a hare, and dress like a
goatherd more than a prince,’ said Maieth.

Alith was crestfallen, and moved to stand. Maieth leant over and stayed
him with a hand on his arm.

‘And that he would be delighted for his daughter to court the son of the
Anars,’ she added quickly.

Alith stopped and paused before breaking into a wide grin.

‘He said yes?’ said Alith.

‘He said yes,’ Maieth replied. ‘I hope you have been practising your
dancing, and not spending all of your time with that bow.’

‘Calabreth has been teaching me,’ Alith assured his mother.

‘Come,’ she said, standing up and reaching down a hand to Alith. ‘You
should greet Caenthras and thank him.’

She pulled her son up by the hand. Alith stood hesitantly, eyeing the
gathered elves as if they were a circling pack of ice wolves.

‘He has already said yes,’ Maieth reminded him. ‘Just remember to be
polite.’
