
FOUR 

Unheralded Allies

Athel Toralien was but the first in a long line of great victories for
Malekith and the Naggarothi. They subdued the greenskins of the forests
around the city and forged eastwards across the new continent. After
almost half a century, Athel Toralien having grown into a teeming port
along with other settlements such as Tor Alessi and Tor Kathyr, Malekith
looked to found another city further to the east.

Over the years more Naggarothi had made the journey to the colonies, and
Malekith’s host now numbered over twenty thousand warriors. With this
army, he marched along the great river Anurein, which flowed all the way
from the mountains to the sea for hundreds of leagues. He put goblin
camps to the torch and forced back the beastmen and other vile creatures
of the deepest woods.

In the wake of his advance, the Naggarothi cleared the forests and built
fortified farms. To the south, other cities were also prospering
greatly, and their rulers were eager to seek alliance with the prince of
Nagarythe. The forces of other elven lords joined the move eastwards.
There were others, too, who were soon to learn about this brilliant
general and charismatic leader: the dwarfs.

It was in the third year of Malekith’s great eastward push that he first
came across the folk of the mountains.

The forests of Elthin Arvan began to thin as the foothills of the
mountains rose up amongst their boughs, and scouts from the Naggarothi
host returned to Malekith to report that they had found something
unusual in the woods. Large areas of trees had been cut down, not by the
crude hacking of beastmen or orcs, but smoothly sawn and felled. They
noted that the tracks of booted feet were plentiful, and evidence of
large, well-built campfires had been found in the clearings.

Malekith assembled a company of his finest warriors and for several days
they marched further eastwards, following the trail as it led towards
the mountains.

The elves found the remains of encampments and marvelled at the
precision with which tents had been aligned, fire pits dug and the trees
hewn to form clearings of almost uniform squares. The ground was
trampled by many feet, and there was also evidence that temporary
palisades and ditches had also been dug and then removed or filled in.
That the strangers were organised was in no doubt, and Malekith ordered
his scouts to remain vigilant, day and night.

It was another three days before the elves came upon a path, or rather a
road. It began at the largest campsite that they had encountered, and
from the tracks that led to the north, west and south, this had been
used as some sort of staging area for forays in all directions. The
earth was not merely trodden down, but deliberately packed and seeded
with stones to make the footing more secure. The road itself was of
similar build, stretching away to the south-east, cutting through trees
and hills without deviation for as far as the eye could see.

Malekith ordered his warriors to stay off the road, but they followed
its course from a little way into the forest, their stealthy advance
concealed by the trees. As night fell, the elves saw the glow of
bonfires in the distance, several miles away, and plumes of smoke rising
across the stars.

Malekith was torn as to what course of action to take. If these unknown
woodcutters were hostile, then it would be far better to surround their
camp at night. On the other hand, coming upon the strangers in the hours
of darkness could possibly lead to surprise and cause the force they
were trailing to respond with justified hostility.

In the end, Malekith decided to compromise. He left a few of his
swiftest runners near to the road, and ordered them to return with all
speed to warn the colonies if he did not return or otherwise send word
by daybreak. His most cunning archers Malekith despatched to
circumnavigate the camp and wait in ambush should their unknown quarry
attempt to fight. They climbed into the branches of the trees and moved
above ground from bough to bough, so silent and unnoticed that not even
the birds were disturbed at their passing. The others he brought
alongside the road and told them to wait a short distance from the camp,
ready to provide reinforcements if things went ill.

With two of his lieutenants, Yeasir and Alandrian, Malekith approached
along the road, weapons sheathed, their cloaks thrown back across their
shoulders so that they concealed nothing that might cause suspicion. As
they neared the camp, the elves saw two large braziers burning on either
side of the road, casting a wide illumination.

In the light stood a handful of diminutive beings, the head of the
tallest no higher than an elf’s chest; in build they were stocky, their
shoulders and chests broad with muscle, their guts solid and of
considerable girth. They were extremely hairy; each sported a beard that
reached his waist, and two of them had facial hair hanging almost to the
tips of their weighty boots.

Each of them wore a heavy coat of chainmail tied with a thick leather
belt with a broad iron buckle. Their arms were bare but for golden
torques twisted into intriguing designs, and the noseguards of their
helms covered much of their wide faces.

Atop the helms were small crests of leaping boars, or stylised dragons,
and three had horns protruding. It was only after careful consideration
that Malekith assured himself that these horns were indeed attached to
the strangers’ headgear and not sprouting from their skulls and passing
through holes in their helms. Each held a single-bladed axe, of design
unlike anything Malekith had seen before. They each also had a large
round shield, rimmed with riveted iron and emblazoned with extraordinary
designs of coiling wyrms, anvils and winged hammers.

They were gathered in a group about one of the braziers, talking amongst
themselves. The prince’s keen hearing caught snatches of a guttural
tongue, much like gravel rolling down a slope or the crunch of shingle
underfoot. It grated on Malekith’s nerves and he just managed to stop
his hand straying to the hilt of his sword.

The sentries saw the three elves approaching and turned as one to stare
at them. Malekith and his two companions stopped where they were, just
inside the circle of firelight, some fifty or sixty paces from the
guards. The strange warriors exchanged hurried glances, and then nods
from four of them sent the fifth running back into the camp, moving
surprisingly swiftly on his short legs.

The two bands stood and simply eyed each other. They remained in this
stalemate for some considerable time.

Eventually a party of the dwarfs came marching up the road from the
camp, over a dozen of them. One was obviously their leader, his beard
braided into four long plaits bound with many golden clasps. Underneath
this expanse of bristle Malekith could see a blue jerkin embroidered
with gold thread in angular knotwork designs. The others walked
deferentially a few paces behind him, their eyes wary, their grips tight
on axes and hammers.

Malekith held his hands far out to his sides, to show no hostile intent,
though he knew full well that he would still be capable of drawing his
blade in the blink of an eye. Yeasir and Alandrian did likewise. A
surreptitious glance to the left and right revealed several of the elven
scouts hidden amongst the leaves, arrows bent to bows trained on the
camp leader as he stomped forwards.

He stopped between the braziers and gestured for the three elves to
approach, and then stood with his arms folded solidly across his chest
as they walked slowly up the road. Malekith waved his lieutenants to
stop about ten paces short of the dwarfs, and took a few more steps. The
leader looked at the prince with a frown, though Malekith could not tell
if this was an expression of displeasure or the dwarf’s natural
demeanour – all of them appeared to be scowling.

This close, Malekith could smell the dwarfs as well as see them. He
quelled a sneer as an offensive mixture of cave dirt and sweat assaulted
his nostrils. The dwarf leader continued to look Malekith up and down,
and then turned his head and barked something to his underlings. They
relaxed slightly, lowering their weapons a fraction.

The leader proffered a grimy hand and spat something like ‘Kurgrik’.
Malekith looked down at the grubby paw extended towards him and fought
to keep the disdain from his expression.

‘Malekith,’ the prince said, giving the dirty hand a quick shake before
swiftly withdrawing his grip.

‘Malkit?’ the dwarf said, finally breaking into a thin smile.

‘Close enough,’ Malekith replied, fixing his face with a pleasant smile
learned from many years spent hiding his frustration in the courts of
Ulthuan.

‘Elf,’ Kurgrik said, pointing at Malekith, and the prince could not keep
the surprise from his face. The dwarf broke into a wide grin and let out
a gruff laugh and then nodded. ‘Elf,’ he said again.

With a wave, the dwarf leader invited the three into his camp, and as
Malekith stepped forwards, the Naggarothi prince gave the most
imperceptible nod to the warriors in the trees. Without disturbing a
single leaf, they withdrew from sight.

The layout of the camp was as Malekith had surmised from the evidence
they had found in the forest. Five rows each of five tents were spread
out across a square glade cut into the woods on one side of the road. At
the end of each row burned a small and neat fire in deep pits lined with
stones.

The dwarfs had all gathered to look at the newcomers, and shamelessly
gaped at the tall, slender elves as they walked into the camp, keeping
their pace steady so as not to move quicker than their hosts. Dark,
inquisitive eyes glared at them from every angle, but Malekith could
feel that the looks were of curiosity, not enmity.

For their part, the elves regarded the dwarfs with neutral expressions,
nodding politely as they caught the eye of one camp member or another.

The dwarfs led them to the far side of the camp where a large fire was
burning, surrounded by low wooden benches. Here the elders sat
themselves down, flanking their leader, who gesticulated for Malekith
and his comrades to do likewise. Malekith tried to sit down with as much
dignity as possible, but on the low dwarfen seat his knees were well
above his waist and so he reclined to one side to assume a more
comfortable position. For some reason this raised a chortle amongst some
of the dwarfs, but it seemed good-natured enough.

Tin tankards were thrust into the elves’ hands, and three dwarfs came
forwards, two of them carrying a large barrel between them. The third
directed them to place it carefully in front of the dwarf leader, and
then with great ceremony drove a tap into the keg with a wooden hammer.
He poured a small amount of the frothing contents into his hand, sniffed
it and then dipped his tongue into the liquid. He thrust a hand towards
Malekith with his thumb pointed up and smiled. Malekith smiled in
return, but felt it best not to return the gesture lest it was some sign
of disrespect.

The chief dwarf than stood up and strutted over to the barrel and filled
his golden tankard with the brew. Hesitantly, Yeasir followed suit,
sniffing cautiously at his mug’s contents. Malekith looked enquiringly
at his lieutenant, who replied with a bemused shrug. The other two elves
then filled up their tankards and returned to their seats.

Raising his tankard in a way that even the elves recognised as a toast,
the dwarf brought his cup up to his lips and downed the contents with
three gargantuan gulps. With a satisfied smacking of his lips, he
slammed the tankard down onto the bench beside him. Bubbles of foam were
stuck upon his beard, and he wiped them away with the back of his hand
and winked at Malekith.

Hesitantly, Malekith allowed a dribble of the liquid to pass his lips.
It was quite thick, and almost stung his tongue with its bitterness. He
could not suppress a quick, choking cough, which elicited more gentle
laughter from the dwarfs.

His pride wounded by their good-natured yet mocking humour, Malekith
snarled and took a more serious draught of the potion. He fought against
the urge to retch as he swallowed, and then gulped down more and more.
He felt his eyes watering at its acrid taste, which was as different
from the delicate wines of Ulthuan as winter is from summer.

Gulping down the last mouthful, Malekith fought back the bile rising in
his throat and playfully tossed the tankard over his shoulder and raised
an inquisitive eyebrow. At this the dwarfs erupted into more laughter,
but this time it was clearly directed at their leader, who gave a snort,
and then a nod of appreciation.

Malekith glanced across to Yeasir and Alandrian, who appeared to be both
finishing their drinks. However, out of the corner of his eye, Malekith
spied patches of dampness upon the earth close to his companions and
suspected that they had used the distraction offered by his performance
to pour away most of their drink.

They spent the rest of the night communicating in crude fashion, naming
objects in each of their tongues and suchlike. Malekith despatched
Yeasir to take word to the others that all was well, keeping Alandrian
close by. His lieutenant displayed an unseen gift for language and had
already picked up a smattering of dwarfish.

Over the next four days, Malekith and Alandrian spent much time with the
dwarfs, and invited Kurgrik to the Naggarothi camp. Through Alandrian,
it transpired that Kurgrik was a thane, one of the nobles of a mighty
city in the mountains called Karaz-a-Karak. As alien as the elves had
been in the dwarf encampment, so too were the dwarfs in the elves’.

As host, Malekith offered the dwarfs golden goblets of the finest
Cothique wine he had, which the dwarfs quaffed with enthusiasm as the
elves sampled their cups with more refinement. The dwarfs were
inquisitive, but not offensively so, always polite to inquire, through
Alandrian, whether they could inspect the elves’ tents, weapons, water
casks and all other manner of items. They ran their rough hands over
elegantly etched armour with surprising delicacy, and gave approving
grunts when they looked at the keen spearheads and arrows of the elves.

As night fell on the fourth day, Alandrian returned from the dwarf camp
as Malekith sat in his tent, watching one of his many servants polish
his armour. Alandrian brought Yeasir with him and the two lieutenants
bowed as they entered the pavilion. Catching the look in their eyes
Malekith dismissed the retainer and waved a hand for them to sit upon
the plush rugs that served as a floor.

‘You have news?’ Malekith said, idly swirling wine around a silver
goblet.

‘Indeed, highness,’ said Alandrian. ‘Kurgrik intends to leave on the
morrow.’

Malekith digested this without comment and Alandrian continued.

‘Kurgrik has extended to you an invitation to accompany him back to the
dwarf realms.’

‘Has he?’ said Malekith. ‘How interesting. What do you make of his
motives?’

‘I am no expert, highness, but he seems sincere enough to me,’ said
Alandrian. ‘He says that you may take an escort of fifty warriors.’

‘Careful, highness,’ said Yeasir. ‘Though fifty Naggarothi would be
guard enough against Kurgrik’s small force, only the gods know what lies
ahead. Even if we take the dwarfs at their word, which I don’t, you
would be relying upon them to provide you with adequate protection
against any number of unknown perils. There are orcs and beasts aplenty
still, I would say. If they should attack, who is to say that the dwarfs
will stand their ground and not abandon you?’

‘I do not think that the dwarfs would have ventured this far from their
mountain homes if they were cowardly,’ said Alandrian. ‘There was no
fear in them that I could see when they came to our camp, though they
were at our mercy.’

‘Bravery and duty are not the same thing,’ said Yeasir, standing up and
starting to pace. ‘It is one thing for them to fight for themselves, but
would they do so for our prince?’

He strode to the tent door and threw open the flap.

‘Every elf of Nagarythe out there would lay down his life for our lord,’
Yeasir said. ‘Yet not one of them would risk his blood for Kurgrik
unless the prince commanded it. I would expect no more from the dwarfs,
and quite a lot less if I am to be honest. What if Kurgrik falls? Would
his warriors fight on for Malekith?’

‘We can demand oaths that they will,’ answered Alandrian. ‘They value
honour highly and I would say that their word is almost as good as any
elf’s promise.’

‘No matter!’ snapped Malekith. ‘If I am to go, I shall look to myself as
ever and not rely upon the dwarfs for my safety. A more fundamental
question is whether it is worth my time to go at all?’

‘It would be most informative, I am sure, highness,’ said Alandrian. ‘We
can learn much not only of the dwarfs but of the world further to the
east.’

‘We can judge the size of their armies and the quality of their
fighters,’ added Yeasir. ‘It would be best that we know our foes.’

‘If foes they are,’ said Alandrian. ‘As a gesture of faith and
friendship, such embassy could bring us valuable allies.’

‘Allies?’ said Malekith. ‘Nagarythe prospers upon her own strength and
needs not the charity of others.’

‘I have not made my point clearly, your highness,’ said Alandrian with
an apologetic bow. ‘Ever will the other princes of Ulthuan be jealous of
our power, and in Elthin Arvan there is none that can equal the power of
Prince Malekith. Though all are of one heart and spirit for the moment,
the loyalties of the other realms may well change. Bel Shanaar cares not
for the colonies at the present, for they are distant from Tor Anroc.
Yet, should his gaze turn upon these shores, how many of your fellow
princes would stand by your side if the Phoenix Throne desired control
over these lands?’

‘And how would the dwarfs guard against that?’ said Malekith, setting
down his goblet and turning an intent stare upon his captain.

‘They are entirely free of influence from Ulthuan,’ Alandrian explained.
‘With the dwarfs as your friends, you will be the powerbroker in Elthin
Arvan and it is Bel Shanaar who will have to tread carefully in his
dealings with you.’

‘My mind is not made for politics,’ said Yeasir, striding back from the
door to stand before his master. ‘I leave that to you. However, what I
have seen of the dwarfs’ wargear, it is durable and well made. At the
moment we still rely much upon imports from Nagarythe to keep your
warriors armed and armoured. If you could secure a more local source for
such things, it improves our security.’

‘Ever the practical one, Yeasir,’ said Alandrian. ‘Prince, envisage a
treaty between Ulthuan and the dwarfs, for the betterment of both. Who
is more fitting to herald such an age than Malekith of Nagarythe?’

‘Your flattery is crude and obvious, Alandrian, but Yeasir’s
practicalities convince me,’ announced Malekith, standing up.
‘Alandrian, you shall convey my wishes to the dwarf thane that I shall
accompany him back to his lands. Press upon him the honour he is being
granted and extract whatever assurances your worries require and
prudence expects.’

‘Of course, highness,’ replied Alandrian with a bow.

‘Yeasir, I have another task for you,’ said Malekith.

‘I am ready to serve, highness,’ said Yeasir.

‘I shall write two letters this night, and entrust them to you before I
depart,’ said the prince. ‘One is destined for Tor Anroc and the hand of
Bel Shanaar. I would not have the Phoenix King accuse me of keeping this
news from him.’

‘And the other, highness?’ said Yeasir.

‘The other shall be for my mother,’ said Malekith with a wry smile.
‘Make sure that you deliver it first. If Morathi were to learn
second-hand of what happens here, none of our lives would be worth
living.’

The following day, Malekith, Alandrian and fifty Naggarothi warriors
accompanied Kurgrik as the dwarf thane headed back to the mountains. For
the most part, the elves marched in silence alongside their new-found
allies, who were equally taciturn. Malekith strolled alongside Kurgrik
with Alandrian to translate, and though ever he appeared at ease the
prince’s eyes and ears were always alert.

Though the dwarfs had been confident enough in their camp, as they set
out eastwards, their party became more wary. There were roughly two
hundred dwarfs in the group, along with many wagons pulled by sturdy
ponies, laden with felled trees. A vanguard of some fifty dwarfs
preceded the march half a mile ahead of the main group, who walked
slowly but surely alongside the wagons.

All of the dwarfs were armed and their hands were never far from the
hafts of their axes and swords as they marched along the road. Ever the
dwarfs were watchful, sending out scouts into the woods to warn of
ambush.

The pace was not quick; Malekith and the other elves could have moved
far more swiftly had they chosen to do so. However, the dwarfs marched
relentlessly, and such was the efficiency with which they set and broke
camp that they covered many miles each day, never wavering or tiring.

At night, the dwarfs would quickly dig defensive ditches lined with
sharpened logs from the carts, and watchful guards patrolled
ceaselessly. Kurgrik continued to entertain his guest with beer and such
stories as Alandrian could translate.

Four days into the trek, the forests finally relinquished their
weakening grip on the lands and were replaced by rising meadows and
windswept hills. The mountains towered ahead, their snowy peaks lost
amongst permanent clouds. Even the highest peaks of the Annulii on
Ulthuan were diminutive by the standards of these ancient mounts, which
stretched across the horizon north and south, seemingly going on
forever.

The hills were covered with long grass and bracken, and littered with
tumbled boulders swept down from the mountains in ages past. Paths and
animal trails led off from the road, but it continued straight on
through briar and across moor heading eastwards. As the group came
nearer to the mountains, the first of several dwarf-built keeps came
into sight.

It was a low, broad structure, only two storeys high, utterly unlike the
majestic towers and spires of Ulthuan and quite ugly to Malekith’s eye.
The fort was crowned with battlements and protected by square towers at
each corner. It stood on a hill overlooking the road, with large
catapults and bolt-hurling engines upon its walls.

Dwarfs armed with axes and hammers marched out to meet Kurgrik and his
curious guests, and as a storm swept down from the mountains, lashing
the hills with driving rains and wind, the travellers were quickly
ushered inside by the fort’s commander.

Within the thick walls, the keep was sparsely furnished, and Malekith
found the bare stone depressing. He wondered why the dwarfs did not hide
the grey rock with tapestries and paintings. His mood was somewhat
mollified as they were brought into a long low hall with a roaring fire
pit at the centre. No matter how dreary the dwarfs’ aesthetic crudeness,
it was preferable to the tempest that was now raging outside.

Kurgrik introduced their host as Grobrimdor, a venerable dwarf of more
than four hundred winters whose white beard was half as long again as he
was tall. He wore his thick mail coat at all times, and an axe was hung
at his belt even as he introduced the more prominent members of the
garrison. It was clear to Malekith that despite the storm the dwarfs
were still wary of attack.

Grobrimdor and Kurgrik furnished the elves with rough blankets and bowls
of thick soup, and then asked politely if Malekith would talk more with
them concerning the elves and Ulthuan. With Alandrian to roughly
translate, Malekith seated himself upon a low stool by the fire.

‘Far to the west, beyond the vast forests, lies the Great Ocean,’ the
prince began. ‘Travel across the high waves for many days and one comes
upon the shores of Ulthuan. Our isle is fertile and green, an emerald
set upon a sea of sapphire. White towers rise above the tall trees and
verdant pastures, against the backdrop of the glittering peaks of the
Annulii Mountains.’

‘And you live in these mountains, yes?’ said Kurgrik.

‘Only to hunt,’ replied Malekith. ‘Except in Chrace and Caledor, where
all is mountains and hills and there are no meadows or grass-filled
plains on which to live.’

Kurgrik took this answer with a disappointed grunt, but then his eyes
lit up with a new vigour.

‘These mountains contain gems and gold?’ asked the thane.

‘Gold and silver, diamonds and crystals of all kinds,’ said Malekith.

‘And perhaps your king would trade these with our people?’ said Kurgrik,
getting quite animated.

‘It is not for the Phoenix King alone to decide such matters,’ Malekith
said. ‘We have many princes, and each of the realms of Ulthuan is ruled
over by such an elf. It is for each to decide the fate and future of his
lands and people. I rule Nagarythe, greatest of the kingdoms of Ulthuan,
and reign over the colonies to the west of here.’

‘That is good,’ said Grobrimdor, gesturing for his retainers to bring
mugs of ale. ‘It is so with us. Our kings rule our cities, and the High
King commands from Karaz-a-Karak. Your king must be a great leader to
rule over so many princes.’

Malekith stifled his reply before it was spoken and suppressed the urge
to glance towards Alandrian. Instead he took a sip of ale, buying time
to compose his response.

‘Bel Shanaar, the Phoenix King, is a clever statesman and diplomatic
with his words,’ said Malekith. ‘My father, the first Phoenix King, was
a great leader. He was our greatest warrior and our salvation from
darkness.’

‘If your father was king, then why does his son not succeed him?’ asked
Kurgrik, his knotty brows furrowed with suspicion.

Malekith was again forced to think his response through carefully, lest
he betray some weakness or flaw that would offend the dwarfs.

‘I will rule Ulthuan when she is ready for me,’ said the prince. ‘She
needed time to heal from a great war fought against the daemons of the
north, and so the princes chose not to follow the line of my father but
to elevate one of their own to the Phoenix Throne. In the interests of
harmony and peace, I do not challenge their decision.’

Both Grobrimdor and Kurgrik nodded and grunted approvingly, and Malekith
relaxed a little. His thoughts were still turbulent though. The dwarfs’
questions stirred old ambitions, feelings that Malekith had travelled to
Elthin Arvan to leave behind. Alandrian, sensing his prince’s unease,
filled the silence.

‘You spoke of trade,’ said the captain. ‘Our cities grow ever more
swiftly with each year. What can your people offer us in exchange for
our riches?’

The conversation turned once again to a subject dear to the dwarfs’
hearts, and all talk of rulership and succession was forgotten. Malekith
spoke little for the rest of the evening and allowed his mind to drift,
knowing that Alandrian could later convey any news of import.

Long before midnight the dwarfs showed the elves to their rough
quarters. Malekith slept in a large dormitory with his warriors, all of
them upon the floor for the dwarfs’ cots were far too short for the tall
elves.

Having slept poorly, Malekith woke early in the morning. Many of the
dwarfs were already up and about, or had perhaps passed the night
without sleeping. The prince swiftly donned a simple robe and cloak and
left the dormitory. The dwarfs said gruff welcomes as he passed into the
main hall, but did not attempt to stop him. Guided only by whim,
Malekith climbed a short staircase and exited out of a squat tower onto
the battlements.

The sun was but a dull glow behind the mountains, which reared up into
the dark blue skies in an unending line of jagged peaks. A thick mist
coiled about the keep, and the breath of the dwarf sentries formed
clouds in the air. Droplets of water shone on their beards and iron
armour. All was peaceful save for the sound of metallic boots on stone
and the jingle of the dwarfs’ mail armour.

Malekith stood looking east towards the mountains for some time, until
elven voices from below warned him that his companions were stirring. He
was about to descend back to the hall when Alandrian hurried from the
tower. The lieutenant visibly relaxed upon seeing his prince and his
expression turned to sheepish guilt when Malekith raised an inquiring
brow.

‘I awoke to find you missing,’ said Alandrian, striding quickly along
the stone wall. ‘I thought that perhaps some ill had befallen you.’

‘You thought that perhaps I had been taken hostage?’ said Malekith.
‘That through some sorcery they had spirited me away without a fight?’

‘I don’t know what I thought, really, highness,’ said Alandrian. ‘I was
suddenly fearful and reminded of Yeasir’s warnings.’

Malekith turned back to the majestic view. The fog had all but gone and
the mountains were revealed in all of their majesty. The prince took a
deep breath and then let it out with feeling.

‘I would not swap such sights for the quiet pedantry of the Phoenix
Throne,’ he declared. ‘Who needs to be Phoenix King when glory and
conquest await? Let Bel Shanaar wither away in courts and audiences,
while the wider world awaits me.’

Alandrian looked unconvinced.

‘What is it?’ said Malekith.

‘It is Bel Shanaar who chooses to stay in Ulthuan and turn his reign
into one of domesticity and politics,’ said Alandrian, turning his gaze
towards the mountains. ‘Were you to be Phoenix King, I have no doubt
that you would do so at the head of our armies, not from the comfort of
Anlec. In time, the princes will see that their king leads from behind
them, not from the front. Then they will see the true worth of
Nagarythe, and her prince.’

‘Perhaps,’ said Malekith. ‘Perhaps one day they will.’

The two stood in silence for a short while, gazing at the mountains,
each content in his own thoughts concerning what they and their dwarfen
rulers might herald for the Naggarothi. The sun now rose above the
lowest peaks and golden light spilled down upon the hills.

A gruff cough attracted Malekith’s attention and he turned to see a
dwarf standing in the tower doorway.

‘We should rejoin our hosts, highness,’ said Alandrian. ‘Kurgrik will
wish to leave soon.’

‘Go ahead and prepare for our departure,’ said Malekith, looking back at
the mountains but his thoughts far to the west upon Ulthuan. ‘I’ll be
with you shortly.’

Over the following days, the dwarfs and elves stopped at several more of
the way-forts. Each was as drab as the first and Malekith’s expectations
of the dwarfs’ cities sank with every new sighting of the small,
functional buildings.

The dwarfs took the time to spend a night in each of these
way-fortresses, to gather news from the garrisons and show off their
intriguing guests. The beer they had been presented with at the first
meeting was much in evidence, and out of courtesy Malekith deigned to
sample the different brews offered to him by each of the keep
commanders. Though far from enamoured of the vulgar ale, Malekith soon
learned the art of swallowing his allotted draught swiftly, so as to
leave as little taste as possible in his mouth. He thought that perhaps
this was why the dwarfs also drank so quickly; that they did not really
like the taste of their own brews. However, the regularity with which
the dwarfs returned to their barrels in an evening suggested otherwise.

When they came into the mountains proper, the dwarfs warned the elves to
remain on their guard. Though the forests were the realm of Chaotic
denizens and bloodthirsty beasts, the mountains were also home to many
orcs and goblins, and other creatures such as trolls, giants and
monstrous birds that frequently came south in search of food.

‘Many daemons and monsters once besieged our holds,’ said Kurgrik, via
Alandrian’s improving skills as a translator. The foothills were now
rising steeply towards the mountains. The column was winding its way
along a rough track, Kurgrik riding on his wagon, Malekith and Alandrian
walking beside it.

‘The sun hid and endless night darkened the mountains,’ the thane
continued. ‘The valleys echoed to the howls and roars of the creatures
of the north. They beat upon our gates and hurled themselves at our
walls. Many dwarfs died defending their homes against the horrors.’

‘We too suffered under the assault of Chaos,’ Malekith said. ‘Then
Aenarion, my father, led the war against the daemons and brought us
through the dark times.’

‘Grimnir was the greatest of our warriors,’ said Kurgrik with a wistful
smile. ‘Grungni, master of the runes and wise beyond mortals, forged two
great axes for Grimnir. With these he slaughtered an army of the beasts.
Valaya wove a cloak for her kin, and with her protective gift Grimnir
fought against the largest and most deadly foes. Yet for all his fierce
skill, Grimnir could not defeat every daemon, for they came forth in an
unending tide.’

‘As it was on Ulthuan,’ said Malekith. ‘Without end came the legions of
Chaos. We fought without hope until Aenarion made the final sacrifice.
He spilt his blood upon the altar of Khaine in return for victory.’

‘Grimnir travelled far into the north with one of his axes and fought to
the great gate of the Chaos gods,’ Kurgrik said, frowning slightly at
the prince’s interruption. ‘He was never seen again and his axe was
lost. He battled into the gates themselves and even now wages war upon
the daemons in their own realm, holding back their unending companies.’

‘Caledor’s vortex closed the gates,’ said Malekith. ‘It was the magic of
the elves that stemmed the daemonic tide.’

Alandrian looked hesitant and did not translate his master’s words.

‘Why the silence?’ demanded Malekith.

‘Perhaps it is better that the dwarfs do not know that we trapped their
greatest hero within the Realm of Chaos,’ Alandrian said with a warning
look. ‘They may not take kindly to such knowledge.’

‘We cannot let them peddle this fallacy,’ Malekith insisted. ‘It is the
strength of the elves, not the dwarfs, that holds back the forces of the
Dark Gods.’

‘Who is to say that the dwarfen ancestors did not unwittingly aid
Caledor’s conjuration?’ said Alandrian. ‘That they suffered under the
darkness of Chaos surely gives us more in common with them. Allow them
to celebrate their own victories, for they do not tarnish your
father’s.’

Malekith considered this, not entirely convinced that he could allow the
dwarfs to undermine the achievements of Aenarion. A glance at Kurgrik
showed the dwarf watching the elves’ exchange with friendly bemusement.
The prince relented upon seeing the dwarf’s ugly, honest face.

‘Say that both elves and dwarfs have earned their right to live free
upon this world,’ said Malekith. ‘Tell him that it is my hope that we no
longer fight alone, but as allies.’

Alandrian’s expression was one of shock.

‘What?’ demanded Malekith. ‘What’s wrong with that?’

‘Nothing, highness,’ said Alandrian. ‘Quite the opposite, in fact. That
is the most diplomatic thing I have heard pass from your lips in a
hundred years!’

The glint of laughter in Alandrian’s eyes quelled the angry retort
welling up in Malekith’s throat, and the prince merely coughed as if
clearing his throat.

‘Just keep the dwarf happy,’ he finally managed to say, suppressing a
smug smile.

Their journey took them on for thirteen days before they reached the
dwarf city, or hold as it was known to the dwarfs. Karak Kadrin they
named it, one of the most northern cities in the mountains.

The location of the city was unmistakable, and as different from the
road stations as could be imagined. High ramparts and towers dotted the
sides of the pass, overlooking the approaches with sentries and war
engines. Immense faces shaped into stylised likenesses of dwarfs were
carved into the mountainsides – the Ancestor Gods, the elves were told.

From dark rock were the gatehouses carved, seen for the first time as
the road turned to the north edge of the pass and began to wind back and
forth up the hillside. They were as two mighty keeps, their foundations
made from the mountain itself, thousands of heavy stones painstakingly
cut and fitted to form fortifications that rivalled the great sea gates
of Lothern. Golden standards glittered in the mountain sun, and banners
stitched with angular runes and more of the curious dwarf designs hung
from the ramparts.

Between the two immense flanking towers, the gates were closed. Almost
as high as the gatehouse, arching far above the pass below, the gate was
covered with plates of gold embossed with ancestor faces and symbols of
smithying such as anvils, hammers and forges. Warriors clad in chainmail
and heavy plates of armour guarded the portal, their expressions hidden
behind full-faced helms wrought in the likenesses of fierce dwarf
visages.

As the party came within sight of the gate towers, horns began to sound
out, filling the valley with long, sonorous peals that rose and fell in
harmony with the rebounding echoes. At this signal a much smaller door
in the gate opened, though still thrice the height of an elf and broad
enough for them to enter ten abreast.

Malekith had been impressed by the outer workings of the hold, but when
he passed through the gate he stopped dead in his tracks and looked
around in awe. The entrance hall was dug from the bare rock of the
mountain, and far from the dreary stone of the way-keeps, it had been
fashioned and polished so that it glittered in the light of hundreds of
lanterns, every fault and strata a glorious decoration in its own right.

Long and no wider than the main gate, the hallway delved into the
mountain, its high ceiling held by great arches carved from the living
rock and sheathed in silver. The columns along the walls were cut in the
same stylised fashion as the bastions upon the mountainsides; pillars of
angular dwarf faces rising into the vaults above.

The lanterns that illuminated this impressive scene hung from thick
chains suspended from the high vaults, each lamp larger than a dwarf and
glowing with magical light. In the glow of these, the carvings between
the arches could clearly be seen, depicting dwarf warriors at war,
workers labouring in mines, smiths pounding at the forges and other
vignettes of dwarfish endeavour. The floor was covered with regular
flags, but each had been painstakingly etched with runes and lines of
knotted patterns, the carved channels filled with coloured glass so that
the ground was a riot of blues, reds and greens.

More dwarf guards lined the walls, arrayed in a line down each side,
garbed in armour chased with gold, their double-headed axes inlaid with
precious gems. Messengers had been sent ahead, and the party was greeted
with much ceremony.

As they passed through the gigantic gateway the first pair of guards
raised their weapons in salute, and so on down the line as the
procession made its way along the long hallway. At the far end stood a
delegation of dwarfs in brightly patterned jerkins, wearing elaborate
helms adorned with horns or wings of gold, and each wore many rings and
bracers, necklaces and brooches, so that they sparkled in the lantern
light as they moved.

Behind each stood a banner bearer carrying a standard displaying the
arms of the dwarf lords, bedecked with golden and silver badges and
woven from fine metallic threads of every conceivable hue and shine. As
with the other decorations, these were of axes and hammers, anvils and
lightning bolts, displayed with such glimmering perfection that Malekith
could imagine the royal standard of Nagarythe created in such a way.

Behind the welcoming party stood a door almost as large as the one by
which the elves had entered. Cut from a solid piece of wood from some
gigantic mountain oak, it was studded with bronze bolts, the head of
each identically crafted as a pair of crossed hammers.

The dignitaries bowed low, sweeping their beards to one side with an arm
so that they did not brush upon the ground. Malekith nodded his head in
return, and the other elves also bowed in welcome. One of the nobles
bore a large ornamental mace, and he turned and struck the door three
mighty blows, the booms resounding around the hall. A slot opened in the
door at about the height of a dwarf’s face, and words were exchanged.
There seemed to be some kind of argument, but Malekith suspected that
this was some form of purposeful exchange whose significance eluded him.

Then the door opened, swinging effortlessly on hinges buried deep within
the walls, to reveal the chambers beyond.

The hold was a veritable maze of corridors, halls and galleries, and
though he tried to keep track of his path, Malekith soon found he was
lost amongst the unending passages and stairwells. They seemed to be
progressing up into the mountain, although by a circuitous route that
rose and dipped.

The interior of the hold was not quite so grand as the entrance chamber,
but still well built and decorated with gems and precious metals. Here
and there the route took them past glowing foundries where the heat of
furnaces blasted from open archways and the ringing of hammers echoed
all around the visitors. There seemed to be little relent from the
labour, though occasionally an artisan or forge worker would look up
from his endeavours. The impression Malekith was left with was one of
constant industry, as dwarfs wearing dirtied smocks and leather aprons
busied themselves about the tunnels and rooms.

Eventually they were brought into the audience chamber of King Gazarund.
It was a wide, low hall, with shields and banners hung upon the walls.
Two long fire pits blazed to each side, the smoke from which disappeared
up a cunning series of chimneys and channels to the mountainside far
above. A walkway raised slightly above the rest of the chamber ran from
the doorway to the throne dais, ascending up nearly twenty feet in a
series of stepped rises. Bathed in the flickering red flames, the
gold-inlaid tiles of the floor glimmered with ruddy light.

Kurgrik motioned for the elves to halt, and with the other thanes and
notable members of the king’s council made his way forwards.

King Gazarund sat upon a throne of black granite decorated with more
gold tracery. His expression was austere rather than welcoming, and in
the firelight his dark eyes shone from under beetling brows. He was
bare-armed, save for two intricately wound torques upon each bicep, and
he was robed in a simple tabard of blue and white. His beard was thick
and black, straggled with stray wisps of grey, and was so long that
despite being coiled through loops upon his belt and woven into winding
plaits, it still hung almost to the ground. His face was craggy and
creased, his skin pocked with the scars of years.

Most distinctively, he wore a golden patch over his right eye, and to
Malekith’s inner horror it appeared that this covering was riveted into
the king’s flesh.

The king’s crown was set on a table beside the throne, so large and
baroque that even this sturdy dwarf would not have been able to bear its
weight upon his head. Wings as large as an eagle’s splayed from the
war-helm, and its cheek guards were studded with dozens of diamonds. In
its place, the king wore a simple steel cap, banded with brazen
knotwork, a few wisps of unkempt hair escaping from under its fur-lined
brim.

The dwarf nobles made petition to the king, or so it seemed to Malekith
from his experience of similar ceremonies at the court of Bel Shanaar.
The king nodded once and the elves were waved forwards.

With great deliberation, the true ritual of welcoming began, carried out
with solemn decorum by the king of Karak Kadrin and his thanes. Malekith
and the king exchanged gifts; for the prince a dwarf-wrought brooch of
gold, for the king a fine elven bracelet made of silver and decorated
with sapphires.

Malekith was presented to the nobles of the hold via a list of
unintelligible names that he soon forgot, and then was ushered into the
chambers that had been set aside for them to stay.

The bedrooms were accommodating, but far from plush. The furniture was
for dwarfs, and so the chairs and beds were distressingly low. Malekith
found it easier to kneel before the clay basin upon the wall to wash his
face, rather than clean himself at a constant stoop.

There was no fire in the room, but a steady breeze of warm air came from
a grated vent upon the wall; Malekith surmised this was somehow
redirected from the forges below by some ingenious means. The fabrics
upon the bed and chairs were stiff and unyielding, as was the padding in
the mattress. Though Malekith would have preferred something a little
more kind to lie upon, it was by no means a necessity for him having
spent many of his long years on campaign in the wilderness.

After resting for a short while, Malekith then made it known to the
dwarf who stood guard outside his door that he was ready to eat, by the
simple expedient of miming food to his mouth and rubbing his stomach.
The dwarf nodded in understanding and garbled something in return, and
then stood back in his place.

Having called for Alandrian, Malekith again asked for something to eat,
only to be told that there was a banquet to be held in their honour that
night.

It was a fulsome affair, with much quaffing of ale and long speeches
that Malekith did not understand. The feasting hall was bedecked with
more banners, and great brass seals displaying the emblems of the
various clans and guilds of the hold.

Three tables were arranged down its length, each seating a hundred
feasters, and Malekith and his company sat at another table that ran
across the head of the hall, along with the king and his most trusted
companions.

The food was for the most part palatable, consisting mostly of roast
meats and boiled vegetables. Thick gravy and heavy dumplings were also
served in abundance, along with pitchers of ale of all varieties and
strengths. Malekith had become accustomed to delicately flavoured and
fragranced meals, using such herbs and spices as grew on Ulthuan and in
the islands on the other side of the world. The menu sat heavily on the
prince’s stomach, and he could see how the dwarfs were so sturdy of
build and wide of girth.

Still, the cooking was done with competence if not finesse, though
Malekith despaired of his hosts’ table manners at times. Each course was
served upon gigantic platters, and once the king had helped himself to
whatever he desired, it seemed to become a free-for-all where everybody
else was concerned. Ales were slopped over the bare wooden boards of the
tables, and Malekith kept a suspicious eye on a puddle of gravy that
spread dangerously close to him as the evening progressed.

Kurgrik, sitting on Malekith’s left, had taken it upon himself to assist
the prince with his dining; assuring himself that his guest was
plentifully fed by heaping ladle upon ladle of stew into his bowl, and
small mountains of potatoes, roast ducks, barley cakes and other simple
fare upon his plate.

Something else that took Malekith aback occurred shortly after the
fourth course. There was a pause while the tables were cleared of plates
and debris, and all of the dwarfs produced small pouches filled with
dried ground leaves. The contents of these small bags they stuffed into
pipes of all shapes and sizes, which they then lit and puffed on
contentedly for quite some time.

The haze of pipe smoke quickly filled the hall and hung in a thick fug
above the table, causing many of the elves to cough violently, including
Malekith. Misreading their discomfort as subtle prompts, Kurgrik
proffered his tobacco to Malekith. The elven prince declined with a
smile and a firm shake of the head, and Kurgrik shrugged and placed his
leaf pouch back into the recesses of his robe whence it had come,
seeming not to take any offence.

Several more platters of steamed potatoes, venison steaks and immense
sausages went by, and then a hush descended upon the hall. There
followed several more speeches, which Alandrian attempted to translate
as best he could. Most of them spoke about family honour, great
tragedies and valour in battle, and after a while Malekith stopped
listening to his lieutenant and allowed his mind to drift.

It was then he felt a sharp dig in his ribs and looked around to see
Alandrian looking at him pointedly. Casting his gaze around the smoky
hall, the prince saw that all eyes were turned upon him.

‘It is your turn to make a toast, I believe,’ whispered Alandrian with a
mischievous smile. ‘Shall I translate?’

‘I would think it better not to,’ said Malekith. ‘I know that you have
learnt well their strange tongue, but I would not have you accidentally
call the king a bloated warthog on my behalf. I shall sound so suitably
imperious and charismatic, the exact meaning of my words will not be
necessary to convey their spirit.’

The prince of Nagarythe stood up, while Kurgrik leaned over and refilled
his tankard with a beer that was so thick and black it could have been
mistaken for pitch.

‘Your good health!’ said Malekith, raising the cup to the hall. The
dwarfs sat in respectful expectation, hands hovering close to their
tankards. They had no idea what the prince had just said.

‘What is the matter with them?’ Malekith hissed out of the side of his
mouth whilst trying to maintain a genteel smile.

‘I think they want something a little, well, longer,’ said Alandrian.
‘You will have to go on a bit, I believe, to make them think they have
been given a proper oratory.’

‘Very well,’ said Malekith, turning his attention towards the king of
the hold. ‘Your halls here are mighty, and full of great wonders. I have
marvelled at the skills of your people, and I know in my heart that an
alliance with you shall bring much benefit to my people.’

A glance towards Alandrian received an encouraging nod, and Malekith
continued. Seeing the polite but clueless expressions on the sea of
faces before him, the prince decided to indulge himself a little.

‘You are very fine people, if a little unwashed and short.’

The elves laughed quietly at this, and taking their cue the dwarfs
joined in, chortling uncertainly.

‘It has been mostly my pleasure to meet you all, though I have not a
clue what your names are, and all of you look pretty much the same to
me.’

Another sideways glance at Alandrian was received with a pout of
disapproval, but Malekith ignored his aide and carried on with his joke.

‘That your mouths produce as much smoke as your chimneys is surprising,
and if I do not choke to death before the evening is out, I shall thank
the gods for protecting me. I understand that we have only just met, but
I hope that in time you will understand the great privilege I have
granted you all by allowing you into my presence. There are people of my
own homeland who have never been granted an audience with me, and yet
here I am, sinking cupfuls of your foul broth and treating you like
equals. I am assured that you are an honourable people, and you best
well be.’

At this point Malekith stood up and raised his foot upon the table to
lean forwards, a feat not difficult for the slender elf, for the table
barely came above his knees.

‘Know this!’ the prince proclaimed, his voice ringing clearly across the
hall, focussing the attention of even the most drunkard audience member.
‘It will go well for you that we should become friends. The Naggarothi
do not treat idly with others, even elves of other realms. Should you
wrong us, our vengeance will be sure, swift and deadly. We will burn
these halls and we will pile your corpses upon pyres so high that they
will rival these mountains. We shall be content to let you dwell in
these rocky peaks, and we shall take the lowlands and the forests.
Should you oppose us, we will have no option but to drive you before us,
as we have the orcs and the beasts and the goblins. I look forward to
meeting your High King, for he shall hopefully be of an almost equal
standing to myself, and of intelligence enough to treat with me. But I
warn you, if I am not impressed with him, I may decide simply to slay
all of you. In fact, the next one of you that mispronounces my name
might just get my blade through his gizzard. While we may deign to learn
your crude language, please do not mangle the heritage of my forefathers
and the legacy to my descendants with your ugly lips and thick tongues.’

Raising his goblet once again, Malekith grinned broadly.

‘Long may Nagarythe prevail over you all!’ he declared.

Before the prince could say any more, Alandrian shot to his feet and
gave a shout of celebration, his mug upraised. The other elves, some of
them clearly shocked, the rest wearing looks of approval, did likewise;
the dwarfs then slowly followed their lead until there was a great
rousing cheer that filled the hall with a cacophony of shouting and the
slamming of cups upon tables.

‘Thank you,’ said Malekith, holding up a hand for silence. The dwarfs
appeared not to understand the gesture for they continued their banging
and clapping.

With Alandrian’s hand on his arm pulling him down before he could speak
further, Malekith sat, a contented smile upon his face.

This seemed to conclude the round of speeches, and servants came forth
bearing great bowls of steaming pudding made from boiled grain and
honey, with chunks of stodgy cake to dip into the sweet broth. This was
followed by platters of hard cheeses that smelt of diseased goats, as
far as Malekith could tell, which were served with small biscuits with
the texture and taste of thin slices of dried wood.

Under the stone roof of the hall, Malekith lost all sense of passing
time and knew not whether it was midnight or if dawn was fast
approaching when the elves were finally allowed to retire to their
dormitories. Many of the dwarfs still caroused, though a significant
proportion of their number had simply slipped into inebriated stupors at
the tables.

For the highest-ranking attendees, the servants brought small pillows,
which were carefully placed under the snoring faces of the inebriated
lords. The lesser peons were allowed to doze away, their faces in
spillages and crumbs.

All Malekith knew was that the banquet had been more tiring than the
march, but he went to bed invigorated nonetheless for his overly full
stomach, both appalled and yet mesmerised by the strange culture of
these people.

On the one hand they were loud, careless and ignorant of any form of
etiquette, yet he had seen much evidence that they were also studious,
observant, dedicated and loyal. Their attention to detail in matters of
craftsmanship equalled that of the elves, and in weapon-making and the
construction of mechanical devices their knowledge outstripped that of
Ulthuan. That they knew of magic was clear from many of the things
Malekith had seen in the hold, yet he had not seen any dwarf openly
wielding sorcery, and when Alandrian had enquired on the prince’s
behalf, he had been met with polite but stern denials that the dwarfs
had wizards of any kind.
