
TWENTY-FIVE


The Wrath of Asuryan

Parties from Yvresse, Cothique, Saphery and Ellyrion camped upon the
meadows surrounding the shrine, in a pavilion town of bright reds, blues
and whites. The banners of the princes flew from standard poles above
the tents, and mailed sentries stood guard on the perimeter. A place had
been set aside already for the prince of Eataine and his contingent, and
while Haradrin’s servants laboured at the dock to unload the wares and
stores of the camp, Carathril went to the shrine itself.

The outer parts of the temple were open rows of columns decorated in
relief with images of Asuryan in many guises: as a loving father, a
swooping eagle, a rising phoenix and others. Between the colonnade and
the shrine proper stood the Phoenix Guard, the sacred warriors of
Asuryan, with glittering halberds and high-crested helms. Their white
cloaks were embroidered with patterns of red and blue flames leaping up
from their hems, and their scale armour shone with gilding.

All were silent, for they were avowed to never speak; each had passed
into the Chamber of Days, where the history of Aenarion was recorded,
and so too all the histories of the Phoenix Kings yet to come. Past,
present and future were laid bare within that secret hall, and the
Phoenix Guard were forbidden to speak of the knowledge they now guarded.

Two of the Phoenix Guards stepped forwards and lowered their halberds to
stop Carathril as he walked under an arched entrance into the shrine.
Carathril presented the seal of the Phoenix King and they let him pass.
Inside, Carathril found himself in an antechamber, a small room
unadorned but for a carving of a great phoenix over the closed door
opposite. Stoops of clear water flanked the doorway, and Carathril
paused to wash his hands and face.

He opened the door and moved further in, to find himself in a wide
gallery that ran around the outside of the central chamber. Phoenix
Guards barred any route to the left or right and Carathril walked ahead,
passing through another archway into the holiest of shrines on Ulthuan.

His gaze was immediately drawn to the sacred flame. From nothing it
sprang, hovering without fuel over the middle of the chamber, burning
blue then green then red then golden, shifting colour every few moments.
It gave off no heat that Carathril could feel, but he felt a wave of
calmness wash over him as he approached. There was not a crackle or hiss
of burning; the flames were as silent as their guardians.

‘Do not approach too closely,’ warned a voice beside Carathril, and he
turned to see an ageing elf wrapped in a blue and yellow robe, leaning
upon a staff tipped with a golden likeness of a phoenix. Carathril
recognised him immediately as Mianderin, the high priest of the shrine,
who had presided here for as long as Carathril could remember. His
attention thus drawn from the flame, Carathril noticed that there was
much activity in the central chamber, as priests and acolytes brought
forth tables and chairs and arranged flame-patterned rugs upon the floor
in readiness for the council.

‘All will be ready for tomorrow,’ said Mianderin. ‘Is there something
with which I might help you?’

‘No,’ said Carathril, shaking his head. ‘No, there is nothing… except,
perhaps, you might furnish me with some information.’

‘What is it that you wish to know?’ the high priest asked.

‘Has there been any word from Prince Imrik?’ said Carathril.

‘A messenger arrived yesterday,’ said Mianderin. ‘Both he and Prince
Koradrel are hunting in the mountains and could not be located. By
choice, I would presume.’

Carathril’s heart sank; how was he to present Bel Shanaar’s message to
Imrik now? He hoped that whatever the missive contained, it was not
important to the business of the council.

‘Thank you for your help,’ he said distractedly.

‘Peace be upon your life,’ the old priest said as Carathril turned away.
The captain paused and looked back.

‘I most fervently hope so,’ said Carathril before heading out of the
shrine.

It was gone noon on the day appointed for the council to begin, and
still there had been no sign of Bel Shanaar, nor Malekith, Imrik or
Koradrel. In all there were nearly two dozen princes gathered, some
leaders of realms, others powerful nobles in their own right, as holders
of land or commanders of troops. As Carathril had seen before, they
conspired and bickered in an almost casual fashion, directing vague
slights against one another whilst making promises of cooperation and
partnership. Though they had been sent word of the unfortunate events of
Nagarythe, none knew fully why they had been asked to come, and as the
day wore on without sign of the Phoenix King, tempers began to fray and
arguments broke out.

Some of the princes, Bathinair chief amongst them, complained bitterly
of the disrespect done to them by Bel Shanaar’s tardiness. There were
whispered threats of returning back to their lands, but they were
persuaded to stay by courteous argument from the likes of Thyriol and
Finudel. The presence of Elodhir did much to calm the situation, who
spent every moment apologising for his father’s delay and assuring that
it would be worth the princes’ while to remain and hear what he had to
say.

It was late afternoon, and the autumn sky was just beginning to darken
when the huge ship Indraugnir glided effortlessly to the quay, the flag
of Nagarythe flying from her masthead. There were claps and cheers, some
of them ironic, as Malekith strode down the ramp onto the wharf,
followed by several dozen of his armoured knights.

Retainers of the prince swarmed over the gunwales, quickly unloading
sacks and chests onto the pier. Malekith waved for the princes to
predede him inside and they did so, leaving Carathril, the Phoenix
Guards and a few other retainers outside with the knights of Anlec.

‘Prince, what of the Phoenix King?’ said Carathril, falling into step
beside the swiftly striding Malekith. The prince did not reply but
simply shooed Carathril away with a fluttered hand. Slighted, Carathril
gave a snort and stormed away towards the quay.

Inside the shrine, the princes and their aides had seated themselves
around a horseshoe of tables that had been set up before the sacred
flames, and in a chair directly in front of the flames sat Mianderin,
his staff of office held across his lap. Other priests moved around the
tables filling goblets with wine or water, and offering fruits and
confectionaries.

The table nearest the entrance was empty, reserved for Bel Shanaar.
Malekith stood behind it, earning himself frowns from Mianderin and a
few of the princes. He was flanked by two knights who carried wrapped
bundles in their hands. The prince of Nagarythe stood there, leaning
onto the table with gauntleted fists, and stared balefully at the
assembled council.

‘Weakness prevails,’ spat Malekith. ‘Weakness grips this island like a
child squeezing the juices from an over-ripened fruit. Selfishness has
driven us to inaction, and now the time to act may have passed.
Complacency rules where princes should lead. You have allowed the cults
of depravity to ­flourish, and done nothing. You have looked to foreign
shores and counted your gold, and allowed thieves to sneak into your
towns and cities to steal away your children. And you have been content
to allow a traitor to wear the Phoenix Crown!’

With this last declaration there were gasps and shouts of horror from
the princes. Malekith’s knights opened their bundles and tossed the
contents upon the table: the crown and feathered cloak of Bel Shanaar.

Elodhir leapt to his feet, fist raised.

‘Where is my father?’ he demanded.

‘What has happened to the Phoenix King?’ cried Finudel.

‘He is dead!’ snarled Malekith. ‘Killed by his weakness of spirit.’

‘That cannot be so!’ exclaimed Elodhir, his voice strangled and fraught
with anger.

‘It is,’ said Malekith with a sigh, his demeanour suddenly one of
sorrow. ‘I promised to root out this vileness, and was shocked to find
that my mother was one of its chief architects. From that moment on, I
decided none would be above suspicion. If Nagarythe had become so
polluted, so too perhaps had Tiranoc. My arrival here was delayed by
investigations, when it was brought to my attention that those close to
the Phoenix King might be under the sway of the hedonists. My inquiries
were circumspect but thorough, and imagine my disappointment, nay
disbelief, when I uncovered evidence that implicated the Phoenix King
himself.’

‘What evidence?’ demanded Elodhir.

‘Certain talismans and fetishes found in the Phoenix King’s chambers,’
said Malekith calmly. ‘Believe me when I say that I felt as you did. I
could not bring myself to think that Bel Shanaar, our wisest prince
chosen to rule by members of this council, would be brought so low. Not
one to act rashly, I decided to confront Bel Shanaar with this evidence,
in the hope that there was some misunderstanding or trickery involved.’

‘And he denied it of course?’ asked Bathinair.

‘He admitted guilt by his deeds,’ explained Malekith. ‘It seems that a
few of my company were tainted by this affliction and in league with the
usurpers of Nagarythe. Even as I confided in them, they warned Bel
Shanaar of my discoveries. That night, no more than seven nights ago, I
went to his chambers to make my accusations face-to-face. I found him
dead, his lips stained with poison. He had taken the coward’s way and
ended his own life rather than suffer the shame of inquiry. By his own
hand he denied us insight into the plans of the cults. Fearing that he
would not keep their secrets to himself, he took them to his grave.’

‘My father would do no such thing, he is loyal to Ulthuan and its
people!’ shouted Elodhir.

‘I confess to having deep sympathy with you, Elodhir,’ Malekith replied.
‘Have I not been deceived by my own mother? Do I not feel the same
betrayal and heartache that now wrenches at your spirit?’

‘I must admit I also find this somewhat perturbing,’ said Thyriol. ‘It
seems… convenient.’

‘And so, in death, Bel Shanaar continues to divide us, as was his
intent,’ countered Malekith. ‘Discord and anarchy will reign as we argue
back and forth the rights and wrongs of what has occurred. While we
debate endlessly, the cults will grow in power and seize your lands from
under your noses, and we will have lost everything. They are united,
while we are divided. There is no time for contemplation, or reflection,
there is only time for action.’

‘What would you have us do?’ asked Chyllion, one of the princes of
Cothique.

‘We must choose a new Phoenix King!’ declared Bathinair before Malekith
could answer.

As he approached the quay, Carathril watched the Naggarothi labouring on
Malekith’s ship. Amongst the throng, he spied a familiar face:
Drutheira. Her hair was bleached white with a few blackened locks, but
still the herald recognised her. Carathril pushed his way through the
servants to where she stood on the dock, picking up a bale of cloth. She
saw him approach and smiled.

‘Carathril!’ she gasped, grabbing his hand in both of hers. ‘I thought
perhaps never to see you again! Oh, this is joyous indeed!’

‘Perhaps you can tell me what has happened to the Phoenix King?’ said
Carathril, and her smile faded.

‘Why would you care about him?’ she asked. ‘Are you not happy to see
me?’

‘Of course,’ said Carathril, uncertain. Seeing Drutheira had suddenly
muddled his thoughts. Her eyes were glistening like mountain pools.
Carathril struggled to concentrate.

‘How is it that you come to be here?’ he stammered. ‘Why are you in the
employ of Malekith?’

‘He is a most noble prince,’ she said, laying her hands upon Carathril’s
shoulders. A shiver of energy ran through him, setting his nerves alight
at her touch. ‘Glorious and magnanimous! When he is Phoenix King we
shall all be well rewarded. You too, Carathril. He thinks very highly of
you.’

‘Malekith, the Phoenix King?’ stammered Carathril. Something was wrong
but he could think of nothing but Drutheira’s pale flesh and the
fragrance of her hair. ‘Bel Shanaar is Phoenix–’

‘Hush now,’ said Drutheira, her voice a sighing breath. She stood on
tiptoe so that her face was in front of his, her breath a breeze upon
his cheek. ‘Do not trouble yourself with the affairs of princes. Is it
not marvellous that we can be together?’

‘Together? What?’ said Carathril, stepping away from her.

This attraction was not natural. Something thrashed inside Carathril’s
head, screaming for freedom. As soon as he broke her touch on him, his
mind began to clear.

‘You shall be his captain and herald, and I one of his handmaidens,’
Drutheira said patiently, as if explaining herself to a child. ‘We can
live together in Anlec.’

‘I am not going to Anlec,’ said Carathril. Whatever Athartist
enchantment she had woven was beginning to fade. Carathril’s thoughts
raced to catch up with what she had said. ‘What has happened to the
Phoenix King?’

She laughed, a sinister sound, and the gleam in her eye stirred fear in
Carathril’s heart.

‘That fool Bel Shanaar is dead,’ she said. ‘Malekith will be Phoenix
King, and he will reward well those that support him.’

Carathril stumbled back a few more paces, his mind reeling. In his
confusion, he tripped over a coil of rope and sprawled to his back.
Drutheira was over him in a moment, crouching close, her hand cupped to
his face.

‘Poor Carathril,’ she purred. ‘You cannot stop destiny, you must embrace
it.’

Once again her touch dazzled Carathril before a moment of clarity
engulfed him, as if a distant voice spoke to him: Bel Shanaar was dead
and Malekith sought to become Phoenix King in his place. ‘This cannot be
allowed,’ the voice said, ‘Malekith is not fit to rule.’ With a snarl,
Carathril pushed Drutheira backwards and regained his feet. He stumbled
into a run, heading back down the pier.

‘Treachery!’ he called. ‘Beware!’

A few of Malekith’s retainers tried to grab him, but he barged them
aside and slapped away their grasping hands as he sprinted down onto the
dock.

‘To arms!’ he shouted. ‘Infamy is afoot!’

The Anlec knights drew their swords. Some turned towards Carathril, the
rest advanced upon the shrine. Ahead of them the Phoenix Guards brought
their halberds up to the ready.

‘Is that your intent?’ asked Thyriol with a glance at the other princes.

‘If the council wishes it,’ Malekith said with a shrug.

‘We cannot choose a new Phoenix King now,’ said Elodhir. ‘Such a matter
cannot be resolved quickly, and even if such a thing were possible, we
are not our full number.’

‘Nagarythe will not wait,’ said Malekith, slamming his fist onto the
table. ‘The cults are too strong and come spring they will control the
army of Anlec. My lands will be lost and they will march upon yours!’

‘You would have us choose you to lead us?’ said Thyriol quietly.

‘Yes,’ Malekith replied without hesitation or embarrassment. ‘There are
none here who were willing to act until my return. I am the son of
Aenarion, his chosen heir, and if the revelation of Bel Shanaar’s
treachery is not enough to convince you of the foolishness of choosing
from another line, then look to my other achievements. Bel Shanaar chose
me to act as his ambassador to the dwarfs for I was a close friend with
their High King. Our future lies not solely upon these shores, but in
the wider world. I have been to the colonies across the oceans, and
fought to build and protect them. Though they come from the bloodstock
of Lothern or Tor Elyr or Tor Anroc, they are a new people, and it is to
me they first look now, not to you. None here are as experienced in war
as am I. Bel Shanaar was a ruler steeped in wisdom and peace, for all
that he has failed us at the last, but peace and wisdom will not prevail
against darkness and zealotry.’

‘What of Imrik?’ suggested Finudel. ‘He is every bit the general and
fought out in the new world also.’

‘Imrik?’ said Malekith, his voice dripping with scorn. ‘Where is Imrik
now, in this time of our greatest need? He skulks in Chrace with his
cousin, hunting monsters! Would you have Ulthuan ruled by an elf who
hides in the mountains like a petulant, spoilt child? When Imrik called
for an army to be gathered against Nagarythe, did you pay him heed? No!
Only when I raised the banner did you fall over each other in your
enthusiasm.’

‘Be careful of what you say, your arrogance does you a disservice,’
warned Haradrin.

‘I say these things not as barbs to your pride,’ explained Malekith,
unclenching his fists and sitting down. ‘I say them to show you what you
already know; in your hearts you would gratefully follow where I lead.’

‘I still say that this council cannot make such an important decision on
a whim,’ said Elodhir. ‘My father lies dead, in circumstances yet to be
fully explained, and you would have us hand over the Phoenix Crown to
you?’

‘He has a point, Malekith,’ said Haradrin.

‘A point?’ screamed Malekith as he surged to his feet, knocking over the
table and sending the cloak and crown upon it flying through the air. ‘A
point? Your dithering will see you all cast out, your families enslaved
and your people burning upon ten thousand pyres! It has been more than a
thousand years since I bent my knee to this council’s first, wayward
decision and saw Bel Shanaar take what Aenarion had promised to me. For
a thousand years, I have been content to watch your families grow and
prosper, and squabble amongst yourselves like children, while I and my
kin bled on battlefields on the other side of the world. I trusted you
all to remember the legacy of my father, and ignored the cries of
anguish that rang in my blood; for it was in the interest of all that we
were united. Now it is time to unite behind me! I do not lie to you, I
shall be a harsh ruler at times, but I will reward those who serve me
well, and when peace reigns again we shall all enjoy the spoils of our
battles. Who here has more right to the throne than I do? Who here–’

‘Malekith!’ barked Mianderin, pointing towards the prince’s waist. In
his tirade, Malekith’s waving arms had thrown his cloak back over his
shoulder. ‘Why do you wear your sword in this holy place? It is
forbidden in the most ancient laws of this temple. Remove it at once.’

Malekith stood frozen in place, almost comic with his arms outstretched.
He looked down at his belt and the sheathed sword that hung there. He
gripped Avanuir’s hilt in one hand and pulled it free, then looked up at
the princes, his eyes narrowed, his face illuminated by magical blue
fire.

‘Enough words!’ he spat.

Carathril ducked beneath the sword of a Naggarothi knight and then
rolled forwards, back onto his feet, before leaping aside to dodge
another blade swung at his chest. He had no weapon of his own; why would
he have come armed to such a council? It was a decision he was swiftly
regretting.

Another knight thrust his sword at Carathril’s throat and the captain
swayed aside just in time and grabbed the knight’s arm. With a twist, he
broke the Naggarothi’s elbow, the sword cascading from his enemy’s grip
to embed itself point first in the marble tiles of the shrine’s
surrounds.

He swung the knight around into the path of another blade, which lanced
between his captive’s shoulders and jutted from his chest just a hand’s
span from Carathril’s face. Hurling the dead knight backwards, Carathril
snatched up the fallen sword and parried another blow. Risking a look
over his shoulder, Carathril saw that he was still more than a hundred
paces from the shrine, and everywhere the Phoenix Guards fought against
the knights. The only noise they made was the clash of their halberds
upon sword and armour. With a grunt, Carathril shouldered aside another
foe and made a break for the entrance.

‘It is my right to be Phoenix King,’ growled Malekith. ‘It is not yours
to give, so I will gladly take it.’

‘Traitor!’ screamed Elodhir, leaping across the table in front of him,
­scattering goblets and plates. There was uproar as princes and priests
shouted and shrieked.

Elodhir dashed across the shrine, and was halfway upon Malekith when
Bathinair intercepted him, sending both of them tumbling down in a
welter of robes and rugs. Elodhir punched the Yvressian prince, who
reeled back. With a snarl, Bathinair reached into his robes and pulled
out a curved blade, no longer than a finger, and slashed at Elodhir. Its
blade caught the prince’s throat and his lifeblood fountained across the
exposed flagstones.

As Bathinair crouched panting over the body of Elodhir, figures appeared
at the archway behind Malekith: black-armoured knights of Anlec. The
priests and princes who had been running for the arch slipped and
collided with each other in their haste to stop their flight. The
knights had blood-slicked blades in the hands and advanced with sinister
purpose.

Malekith was serene; all trace of his earlier anger had disappeared. He
walked slowly forwards as his knights cut and hacked at the princes
around him, his eyes never leaving the sacred flame in the centre of the
chamber. Screams and howls echoed from the walls but the prince was
oblivious to all but the fire.

Out of the melee, Haradrin ran towards Malekith, a captured sword raised
above his head. With a contemptuous sneer, the prince of Nagarythe
stepped aside from Haradrin’s wild swing and thrust his own sword into
Haradrin’s gut. He stood there a moment, the princes staring deep into
each other’s eyes, until a trickle of blood spilled from Haradrin’s lips
and he collapsed to the floor.

Malekith let the sword fall from his fingers with the body rather than
wrench it free, and continued his pacing towards the sacred fire.

‘Asuryan will not accept you!’ cried Mianderin, falling to his knees in
front of Malekith, his hands clasped in pleading. ‘You have spilt blood
in his sacred temple! We have not cast the proper enchantments to
protect you from the flames. You cannot do this!’

‘So?’ spat the prince. ‘I am Aenarion’s heir. I do not need your
witchery to protect me.’

Mianderin snatched at Malekith’s hand but the prince tore his fingers
from the haruspex’s grasp.

‘I no longer listen to the protestations of priests,’ said Malekith and
kicked Mianderin aside.

His hands held out, palms upwards in supplication, Malekith walked
forwards and stepped into the flames.

Carathril leaned against a column, catching his breath. He had seen
several knights enter the shrine, but the fighting outside was almost
done. White-robed corpses littered the plaza alongside black-armoured
bodies. Pushing himself upright, his heart hammering, Carathril took a
step towards the shrine.

At that moment the ground lurched and flung Carathril from his feet.

The earth beneath him shook violently and columns toppled around him as
the Isle of Flame was gripped by an earthquake. The isle heaved
violently, tossing Carathril to the left and right before sending him
hurtling into a falling pillar. He narrowly rolled aside as more masonry
showered down from the cloister, crashing upon the cracking marble
tiles.

Overhead dark clouds instantly gathered, swathing the island in gloom;
lightning flickered upon their surface and a chill descended. Thunderous
growling shook the earth underfoot as the herald forced himself back to
his feet. Amongst the roaring and crashing, Carathril heard a terrifying
shriek: a drawn-out wail of utter pain that pierced his soul.

Within the shrine, prince, priest and knight alike were tossed around by
the great heaving. Chairs were flung across the floor and tables
toppled. Plaster cracked upon the walls and fell in large slabs from the
ceiling. Wide cracks tore through the tiles underfoot and a rift three
paces wide opened up along the eastern wall, sending up a choking spume
of dust and rock.

The flame of Asuryan burned paler and paler, moving from a deep blue to
a brilliant white. At its heart could be seen the silhouette of
Malekith, his arms still outstretched.

With a thunderous clap, the holy flame blazed, filling the room with
white light. Within, Malekith collapsed to his knees and grabbed at his
face.

He was burning.

He flung back his head and screamed as the flames consumed him; his howl
of anguish reverberated around the shrine, echoing and growing in volume
with every passing moment. The withering figure silhouetted within the
flames pushed himself slowly to his feet and hurled himself from their
depths.

Malekith’s smoking and charred body crashed to the ground, igniting a
rug and sending ashen dust billowing. Blackened flesh fell away in lumps
amidst cooling droplets of molten armour. He reached outwards with a
hand, and then collapsed. His clothes had been burned away and his flesh
eaten down to the bone in places. His face was a mask of black and red,
his dark eyes lidless and staring. Steam rose from burst veins as the
prince of Nagarythe shuddered and then fell still, laid to ruin by the
judgement of Asuryan.

Soon, all of Ulthuan would burn.
