
SIX 

Anlec Restored

The night was torn by the screams of sacrificial victims and the
screeching entreaties of wild cultists. Alith stood at the window of the
abandoned garrison tower and looked over Anlec. Fires of different
colours broke the darkness, while bloodthirsty mobs ran amok in the
streets below, fighting each other and dragging off the unwary to be
sacrificed to the dark gods of the cytharai.

The Shadows had made their lair in a deserted building not far from the
northern arc of the city wall. Once it had been home to hundreds of
soldiers, but they had been moved south to confront the threat from
Tiranoc. Like many parts of Anlec, the area was eerily quiet, the
cultists preferring to keep to the centre of the city where the great
temples were found. There was strength in numbers as the cults vied with
each other for dominance.

There were chambers below the tower that the Anars had not ventured into
since their first exploration, appalled by bloodstained floors and
barbed manacles, broken blades and wicked brands. Shuddering at the
thought of the torments that had been visited upon fellow elves, they
had closed the doors and kept to the upper storeys.

‘I had no idea that we could fall so low,’ said Eoloran, appearing at
Alith’s shoulder. ‘In this place of all, where once there was such
dignity and honour, it pains me to look upon what we have become.’

‘We are not all the same,’ said Alith. ‘Morathi has spread weakness and
corruption, but Malekith will bring strength and resolve. There is still
a future worth fighting for.’

Eoloran did not reply and Alith turned to look at his grandfather, to
find that he was gazing at Alith with a smile.

‘You make me proud to be an Anar,’ said Eoloran, touching Alith’s
shoulder. ‘Your father will be a great lord of the house, and you will
be a fine prince of Nagarythe. When I see you, memories of the ancient
past disappear and pain goes away. It is for the likes of you that we
fought and bled, not these wretches that cavort through Aenarion’s
city.’

Eoloran’s words warmed Alith’s heart and he grasped his grandfather’s
hand.

‘If I am so, it is because I have your example to follow,’ said Alith.
‘It is the fine legacy that you will leave us that stirs me, and I call
myself Anar with such pride that I cannot put it into words. Where
others faltered and fell into the darkness, you have stood unflinching,
a shaft of light for all to follow.’

Eoloran’s eyes glistened with tears and the two embraced, drawing
comfort upon each other’s love and putting aside the horrors that lay
outside.

Breaking away after some time, Eoloran turned his eyes back to the
window and his expression hardened.

‘Those that have perpetrated these atrocities must be punished, Alith,’
he said quietly. ‘But do not confuse punishment with revenge. It is fear
and anger, jealousy and hatred that feed these cults, stirring those
darkest emotions that lie within us all. If we stay true to our ideals,
the victory will be ours.’

For nine days the Shadows concealed themselves within the heart of the
enemy. For the most part they stayed out of sight, but singly and in
pairs they dared the city on occasion, to gather information and food.
The daytime was less perilous than the night, for the orgies and
sacrifices of the night before left the cultists sated for a while and
the streets were quieter.

While the cultists ruled the night, the garrison of Anlec held sway in
the daylight, patrolling the streets vigorously to ensure that total
anarchy did not consume the city. It became clear that Morathi held the
various forces in balance, indulging the cults to retain their support,
yet reining back their excesses enough to ensure that some semblance of
order was maintained.

It was late afternoon on the ninth day when Alith and Casadir took their
turn to go out into the city and find out what news they could. Garbed
in their elegant robes, swords concealed beneath the folds of cloth, the
pair headed for the main plaza outside the palace. There was a guard of
soldiers upon the steps that led up to the huge doors of the citadel,
and a throng of elves was massing in the square.

There was a hum of conversation, an edge of fear to the atmosphere that
drew Alith’s attention.

‘Let us split up and see what we can hear,’ he said to Casadir. ‘I will
meet you back here in a short while.’

Casadir nodded and headed off to the right, passing in front of the
steps. Alith turned left, towards the market stalls that had been set up
on the edge of the square. He moved along the stalls, seemingly browsing
the sellers’ wares yet he was alert to the hubbub around him. Amongst
the usual fare of a market there were more sinister goods on sale.
Ritual daggers inscribed with evil runes, talismans of the cytharai and
parchments filled with incantations to the underworld gods. As he eyed a
silver amulet forged in the shape of Ereth Khial’s sigil, Alith heard a
passer-by mention the name of Malekith. Turning, he followed the group
of elves across the square. Amongst the languid strolls of the other
elves, these five moved with purpose towards the street of temples that
lay to the west.

‘Riders came in early this morning,’ one was saying. Though the air had
not yet thrown off the full chill of winter, she was dressed in a
diaphanous veil that was wound loosely about her body, her pale flesh
exposed for all to see. Upon her back were scars in the shapes of runes,
and her flesh was pierced with rings of gold. ‘My brother was at the
south gate and overheard what was said to the guards. The riders told
the garrison that Prince Malekith advances on Anlec with an army.’

This was greeted with twitters of fear from the other elves.

‘Surely he won’t attack the city?’ said one.

‘Are we safe here?’ asked another.

‘Perhaps we should flee,’ suggested another.

‘There is no time!’ said the first, her voice shrill. ‘The riders say
that the prince is but a day’s march away. His wrath will fall upon us
ere sundown tomorrow!’

A thrill of excitement pulsed through Alith on hearing these words. He
longed to follow the group further but they had turned up the steps that
led to the shrine of Atharti and he had no desire to enter that damned
place. Cutting down a side street, Alith circled quickly back towards
the square and there he found Casadir waiting for him.

‘Malekith is close,’ Casadir whispered as Alith came up to him. ‘I heard
a captain of the guards sending his company to the walls to make ready
the defence of the city.’

‘He is but a day away,’ said Alith as the two of them walked together
back towards the abandoned barracks. ‘Or so some believe.’

‘Morathi is keeping this news secret for the moment,’ said Casadir. ‘She
fears that there will be panic if the people find out that the prince is
about to besiege Anlec. Perhaps we should spread the word, and hope that
we can cause fear and confusion and hinder her plans.’

‘That might be a good idea, but I would speak with my father first,’
said Alith.

‘I will linger a while longer and see what else I can learn,’ said
Casadir. ‘I will return to the tower before dusk.’

‘Be careful,’ said Alith. ‘As this news spreads, I fear hysteria will
grip many of the cultists. The sacrificial fires will burn high this
night.’

Casadir nodded reassuringly and disappeared into the gathering crowds.
Alith headed for the Shadows’ lair at a brisk pace, keen to move quickly
but fearful of attracting attention. If Malekith was indeed but a day
away, his approach having been kept secret by Morathi’s warriors, the
Anars had little time to prepare their plan of action. Though the
prospect filled Alith with excitement, he felt an underlying dread that
the Shadows would fail and the prince would be destroyed upon the city’s
walls.

As Alith had predicted, the night was punctuated by much rowdy
behaviour, the beating of drums and the blare of horns as word spread of
Malekith’s approach. Amongst the mayhem of the cultists’ tribulations
and celebrations, the tramp of marching feet reverberated around the
city as the garrison turned out and such forces as were near at hand
were brought back to Anlec. The Shadows kept to their dark tower whilst
this hysteria gripped the druchii, fearful of being set upon in the
streets.

Alith spent a sleepless night with the others, alternating between
keeping watch for intruders and discussing the coming events with his
father and grandfather. When the rosy haze of dawn crept across the
horizon, barely glimmering over the stone wall of the city, Alith was in
the highest chamber of the tower with Eothlir and Eoloran. In the light
of the dawn and by the fires of torches along the ramparts, they could
see a great many warriors standing ready to receive an assault.

A singular question had vexed Eoloran since their arrival at Anlec and
he gave voice to it again as the sun crept onto the sill of the window.

‘From which direction will Malekith attack?’ he asked, though posing the
question to nobody in particular. ‘We must know which gate needs to be
opened.’

‘I have heard conflicting reports,’ said Eothlir. ‘Some believe he
marches direct from Tiranoc and comes from the south, while others have
said that he comes from Ellyrion in the east.’

‘From his messages, we know the prince intended to muster his army in
Ellyrion,’ said Alith. ‘The east seems the most probable direction.’

‘That does seem likely, but such is the confusion that I have even heard
tell that he comes from the west, having landed at Galthyr. While I
suspect that you are right, Alith, it is not beyond the bounds of reason
to wonder if his plans have changed, either through his own decision or
forced by the actions of the druchii. A wrong assumption would not only
cost us our lives but could damn Nagarythe to this torment for many more
years to come.’

‘Then we must see for ourselves what is the truth,’ said Alith.

‘And from where would you look?’ said Eothlir. ‘The walls are full of
warriors and no tower save for the citadel is high enough to see any
distance.’

‘When faced with only one path, no matter how dangerous, that is the
route we must take,’ said Alith. ‘I will scale the citadel for a vantage
point that will give us sufficient warning of Malekith’s approach. We
need time to order ourselves and reach whichever gatehouse he assaults,
and for that we need to know his intent as soon as possible.’

‘If only there were some way we could send or receive word from the
prince,’ said Eoloran. ‘A bird, perhaps?’

‘I fear that Morathi’s eye will be alert to such things, and we risk
revealing ourselves for only an uncertain gain,’ said Eothlir. He paced
to the window and back, obviously distressed. ‘It seems unwise to send
out a solitary spy, Alith.’

‘Better that only one is caught than all, and I would not ask any other
to risk themselves,’ said Alith. ‘Do not be too disheartened. Anarchy
still holds sway over much of the city, though I am sure before long
Morathi will instil a greater fear in her followers than Malekith. The
shadows are still deep at this early hour and a lone figure moves unseen
where many would attract attention.’

‘I am still not certain,’ said Eoloran.

‘Then you’d best bind me and leave me here, for I intend to go!’ snapped
Alith, who then fell silent, taken aback by his own determination. He
continued in a more measured tone. ‘I promise I will not take any
unnecessary risks, and if I hear word that confirms Malekith’s plan I
shall return immediately and dare nothing. All eyes are outwards at this
moment, none will see a solitary shadow.’

Eoloran said nothing and turned away, giving his assent yet not able to
say as much. Eothlir stepped in front of Alith and placed a hand upon
the back of his son’s head. He pulled him closer and kissed his son upon
the brow.

‘May all the gods of light watch over you,’ said Eothlir, stepping back.
‘You must be quick, but in your haste do nothing rash.’

‘Believe me, I would like nothing more than to return whole and
unharmed!’ said Alith with a nervous laugh. He waved away his father’s
concerns and headed for the door.

Alith stripped off the cumbersome Salthite robes he had been wearing and
adorned himself with a simple loincloth and red cloak, such as might be
worn by a Khainite. He wrapped a ragged sash around his waist in which
he placed a serrated knife. Thus disguised, Alith slipped from the tower
without a word to his fellow Shadows.

The street directly outside was empty and the tower itself concealed the
view from the walls. Hugging close to the side of the street, where
tall-roofed buildings had once housed thousands of warriors, Alith
headed for the centre of the city.

Feeling that he would arouse less attention on the main roads than if he
were seen skulking through alleys and side streets, Alith took the most
direct route to the central plaza, coming at the palace of Aenarion from
north-west. Here were many of the homes of Anlec’s rulers, most empty
while their noble owners commanded troops on the wall or were with their
soldiers far to the south. Leaping over garden walls and flitting past
bubbling fountains, Alith looked for a means by which he could gain
entry to the citadel.

Where once the spire of Anlec had stood alone in the centre of the city,
the passing centuries had brought more buildings, each getting closer
and closer to the palace. Though the square south of the citadel was
open, generations ago the houses of the nobles had joined to the
northern wall of the palace and it was here that Alith headed.

As easily as he had once jumped from rock to rock on the mountainsides
of his home, Alith leapt into the bare branches of a tree close to the
porch of one of the manses. From here he jumped onto the roof. Sliding
past an open dormer window, Alith stooped low to avoid being seen and
ran along the angled tiles at the ridge of the steep roof. There was
some distance between the manse’s gable and the wall of the citadel and
Alith took the leap at a run, hurling himself over the drop. His fingers
found a hold on the age-worn stones of the wall and, after a moment of
scrabbling, his naked toes also found purchase. Spider-like, Alith
shimmied to the top of the wall. After peering over to ensure he was
unobserved, he slipped through the tall crenellations onto the rampart
beyond.

His vantage point was no better than that elsewhere and he could see no
further than the curtain wall of Anlec. He needed to climb higher if he
was to get a good view of the surrounding plains and witness the arrival
of Malekith.

Keeping to the western side of the citadel, still shrouded from the
rising sun, Alith climbed up turrets and minarets, sidled along ledges
and clawed his way up steepling roofs until he was far above the city.
Pausing beneath the sill of an arched window, Alith glanced down and saw
figures on the streets below, made incredibly small by distance. There
was a great throng in the central plaza and the street of temples was
full of people. Elsewhere there were very few elves. Alith could see
over the walls, but only to the dark west, the direction least likely to
reveal Malekith. He needed to look east, to confirm that Malekith’s army
indeed approached from that direction.

Crawling along a narrow gutter, Alith came to the edge of a roof
overlooking the top of an open turret below. Three warriors stood guard
at the door beneath him, but their eyes were looking outwards, seeking
the same thing he was. Ignoring the soldiers, Alith pulled himself
across the gap above their heads and silently climbed higher.

The sun bathed Alith with its warmth as he rounded the golden pinnacle
of a minaret. The sensation gave him a sudden flash of memory. He
remembered lying on the lawn of the manse with his mother, talking about
Ashniel. It was with guilt that Alith realised he had not thought of
Ashniel since leaving Elanardris, so possessed had he been of the coming
mission. The memory heartened him, for if they succeeded today, Malekith
would regain his throne and Ashniel would no longer be bound to her safe
retreat in the mountains.

Spurred on by his desire, Alith looked around for surer footing and saw
a balcony not far above him. With a spring, he grabbed hold of the
curving stone supports beneath the balcony and pulled himself up to an
elegant balustrade. A huge windowed door stood open, leading into a
darkened chamber.

Alith heard voices and froze.

After a moment, he relaxed as the voices receded into echoes. Standing
to one side of the door so that he could not be seen from within, Alith
had the chance to look out properly. Everything to the south and east
was laid out before him. The roads running from the gates travelled
directly away from the city as far as the horizon, broken only at the
raised bridges across the fire moat.

For some time Alith stayed there, seeking some clue that would confirm
Malekith’s approach. As time dragged on, doubt gnawed at Alith’s
resolve, his expectation slowly leeched from him as the sun rose higher
and higher. On occasion there would be the sound of footfalls within the
citadel and Alith held his dagger ready in case someone came upon him.

Even as the last of Alith’s hope was waning, he spied a flashing to the
south-east. Shading his eyes, he looked more carefully. It was the
unmistakeable glint of sunlight on metal. Dust rose on the horizon and
Alith watched in awe as the host of Malekith marched towards the city.

Alith had never seen so many warriors. Thousands upon thousands of
knights, spearmen and archers advanced, spreading far to either side of
the southern road. As the army came nearer and nearer, Alith saw white
chariots pulled by fierce lions, and the banners of other realms
flapping above the endless ranks of warriors: Ellyrion, Yvresse, Tiranoc
and Chrace. Front and centre were the silver and black standards of
Nagarythe, the warriors of Prince Malekith. At this distance, Alith
could see nothing of the prince, though his black-armoured knights were
visible. Winged creatures circled in the clouds above the army: three
pegasi and a mighty griffon with riders on their backs.

It was clear that Malekith marched for the southern gate, his army
forming up towards the drawbridge in that direction. Relieved, Alith was
about to start his long climb down when raised voices from within the
citadel attracted his attention. He risked a glance into the chamber and
found it was empty. However, through an archway at the far side of the
room he could see an inner hall and his heart skipped a beat when a tall
figure crossed into view.

She was tall, majestic, her black hair spilling down her back in languid
curls. She wore a purple gown of gossamer cloth, which wreathed about
her white skin like smoke. There was a strange shadow about her, a
barely visible miasma of darkness that seemed to teem with a life of its
own. Alith fancied he saw tiny glaring eyes and fangs appearing in that
shadowy mist. In her hand the matriarch held an iron staff topped with a
strange horned skull and her hair was bound by a golden tiara set with
diamonds and emeralds.

Morathi!

Alith was spellbound by her beauty, though he knew in his heart that she
was utterly wicked. Her back was to him but the curve of her shoulders
and hips stirred a passion inside Alith that he had not known he
possessed. He longed to lose himself in that lustrous hair and feel the
touch of that smooth skin beneath his fingers.

The sound of voices broke the enchantment and Alith realised the
sorceress-queen was not alone. Black-robed figures passed back and forth
across the archway, their heads shaved bald and tattooed with strange
designs. He could not hear the words being said and against the promise
he had made his father, Alith slipped into the chamber to come closer to
the hated Witch Queen.

From this new position Alith could see more clearly into the central
hall. He recoiled from what he saw. Beyond Morathi burned a
multi-coloured flame, which recalled to Alith the tales of the Flame of
Asuryan that had blessed Aenarion at the dawn of time. Yet there was
nothing holy about these fires, their licking tongues strangely jagged
and angular. A half-formed shape dwelt in the middle of the twisting
flames. Though indistinct, made up from but also not part of the flames,
it looked like the face of a bird, perhaps an eagle or a vulture,
shifting between two different appearances. Its eyes glittered with
power and to Alith the flames looked like a pair of immense wings furled
around some otherworldly creature.

‘Their time will come,’ intoned a solemn, deep voice that resounded
around the hall. The words came from the flames, but did not seem to be
elvish, though Alith understood them easily. It was if the words came
from a language that bound all other languages together, utterly
recognisable and yet totally different.

‘The winding road forks many times,’ warned another, with a cackle.

‘And we see where all paths lead,’ said the first voice.

‘But not when,’ responded the second.

Alith was confused, for both voices seemed to come from the flaming
apparition, yet they had about them the tone of an argument.

‘And in return for this undertaking, I shall expect to be rewarded.’
Morathi cut across the bickering, her voice as luxuriant as her body.
‘When I call, I will be answered.’

‘It makes demands,’ said the screeching voice.

‘Demands,’ echoed the deeper voice with a guffawing laugh.

‘I do not fear you,’ said Morathi. ‘It is you that came to me. If you
wish to return to your infernal place with no bargain made, I shall not
stop you. If you wish to return with what you came for, then you will
treat me as an equal.’

‘Equal?’ the creature’s shrill voice bit like splinters inside Alith’s
ears and he winced at the sound.

‘Equal in all things, we are,’ said the deep voice, reassuring and
gentle. ‘As partners we make this trade.’

‘Remember always that there are things a mortal can do, places a mortal
can go, that are beyond your reach, daemon,’ said Morathi. A trickle of
dread ran down Alith’s spine at the mention of daemons and he was
gripped by the urge to flee. Shaking, he mastered his fear and forced
himself to listen on. ‘It was our kind that bound you to the prison that
holds you. Should you wish to reach beyond that prison, it is with
mortal hands that you must work.’

‘Always so arrogant,’ mocked the sharp voice. ‘Mortals imprisoned us?
You would do well to know that no prison can keep us for all time, and
no barrier holds us wholly back. There will come a reckoning with
mortals, oh yes. A reckoning.’

‘Shut up, you stupid old crow,’ said the other voice. ‘Do not listen to
his idle chatter, queen of the elves. Our deal is set, our pact is made.
Your followers shall go into the north and teach the humans of the
sorcerous ways and in exchange the power of the Everchanging Veil shall
be yours.’

‘I mark this pact with blood,’ said Morathi. Her staff tip lashed out
towards one of the sorcerers and he was suddenly swathed with blood from
hundreds of small cuts, his screams echoing around the hall. With a
contemptuous sweep of her staff, Morathi hurled the still-shrieking
acolyte into the fires. The flames burnt brightly for a moment, almost
blinding, while harsh laughter resounded from the walls.

‘Your fate is woven,’ said the daemon. With another flash the flames
disappeared, leaving the hall in darkness.

Alith blinked to clear the spots from his vision. It was a moment before
he realised Morathi had turned and was heading towards the archway. In a
panic, Alith sprinted back out onto the balcony and threw himself over
its rail, grasping hold of the supports as he dropped. He clung there,
grimacing, as he heard the tap of narrow-heeled boots clicking on the
stone above. When Morathi spoke next, her voice was almost on top of
Alith and his skin crawled at being so close to the sorceress-queen.

‘How remarkable,’ Morathi said. ‘I thought the fires beyond him. It
seems as if my son has grown up finally.’

‘Do you not feel its presence, majesty?’ hissed one of the sorceresses.
‘The circlet upon his helm, it burns with the ancient powers.’

‘Yes,’ said Morathi with a sigh. ‘Has he the will to wield that power
though? We shall soon see. It is an artefact from before Ulthuan was
raised from the seas. Be wary, my darlings, or we shall all suffer the
consequences.’

‘Prince Malekith has crossed the fires, your majesty,’ said another
acolyte. ‘What if he takes the city?’

‘Send your familiars out to spread the word to the others, our agents in
the mountains and the cities,’ purred the queen. ‘A single battle does
not win a war. Should he enter Anlec, he will come to me.’

Footsteps receded into the citadel and Alith let out his breath in an
explosive gasp, almost losing his hold on the pitted stonework. There
was too much to think about and not enough time to consider everything.
Alith focussed on what was important: the Shadows had to open the
southern gate, and quickly.

There were few elves on the streets of Anlec, and those that were spared
no second glance to thirty Naggarothi garbed in short mail coats and
cloaks of black who marched along the road with bows in hand and grim
looks on their faces. Shouts and cries echoed down from the walls, but
from within the city it was impossible to know how the battle
progressed. Now and then Alith saw one or other of the pegasus-riding
mages sweep down to the ramparts unleashing magical fire or forks of
lightning. The screams of the dying grew in number as an elven prince
atop the back of a majestic griffon crashed into the soldiers upon the
walls. His icy lance and the claws of the monster gouged great wounds in
the druchii regiments. All else save for the clouds of arrows that
passed back and forth was hidden from view.

‘Wait!’ hissed Eoloran as the Shadows came into sight of the wide plaza
behind the south gate. The open square was filled with elves howling and
screaming: Khainites. Their priests and priestesses moved amongst the
shrieking mob, sprinkling them with handfuls of blessed blood, exhorting
them to slay the city’s attackers for the glory of Khaine. Hateful oaths
to slay Malekith echoed from the gate and surrounding buildings. Some of
the Khainites fell to their knees, wailing and snarling, dousing
themselves with blood from silver chalices, slicking their hair and
painting runes upon the flesh with the blood of their companions. Bodies
littered the flagstones where the most frenzied worshippers had fallen
upon their fellows with knives and bare hands. The skin and flesh had
been torn from them, their organs plucked free and devoured by the
demented cultists.

Looking up towards the high towers of the gatehouse, Alith could see a
great deal of activity. Archers were gathering from the surrounding
walls, pouring their arrows into some foe close at hand.

‘We must take the gatehouse!’ hissed Alith, taking a step.

‘We will be butchered,’ replied Eothlir, grabbing Alith by the arm and
dragging him back as the other warriors took shelter in the shadow of
the wall.

‘Malekith’s soldiers will all be killed,’ said Alith, snatching his arm
from his father’s grasp.

‘And so will we,’ snarled Eoloran. A bell rang out three times from the
direction of the citadel. A moment later a loud grinding echoed across
the courtyard. Eoloran pointed towards the gate towers. ‘Look!’

The huge gates of Anlec swung open with a rattle of heavy chains. On the
gate towers, naked slaves were bent to two great wheels as their druchii
masters lashed their backs with barbed scourges. Like a dam being
opened, the Khainites flooded out of the city, whooping and screaming
with murderous delight.

The gates closed with a shuddering thud as the last of the Khainites
passed through. The courtyard was empty and silent, save for the distant
battle cries and clash of war from beyond the walls.

‘Now is our chance!’ said Eoloran, waving Alith and the others forwards.

Bows and arrows readied, the Shadows ran swiftly across the gate square.
As had been discussed before setting out from their hiding place, Alith
and Eothlir led half of the Shadows towards the eastern tower while
Eoloran took the rest towards the western tower. Eoloran’s group
disappeared through the doorway whilst Alith was still a dozen paces
from the other tower.

A figure clad in chainmail appeared at the doorway right in front of
Alith. The druchii’s eyes widened with shock a moment before an arrow
from Anadriel took him in the cheek, hurling him against the stone of
the tower. Alith leapt past and was engulfed by the torchlit gloom.

The stair spiralled to the right and Alith dashed up the steps in
bounding leaps, the other Shadows closely on his heels. No other druchii
came down and as Alith burst from the door at the top he found himself
looking out across the plains of Anlec and the army of Malekith.

He had only time to register rank upon rank of spears and knights and
archers before movement to his left caught Alith’s eye. There were
dozens of warriors on the wall next to the tower and the closest were
turning towards him.

Without thought, Alith aimed and loosed his first arrow, which punched
through the gilded breastplate of the closest warrior. As he nocked and
shot his next, Eothlir and the other Shadows fanned out around him to
add their own missiles to the volley. Within moments, two dozen druchii
lay dead and wounded upon the stones.

‘The gate wheel,’ said Eothlir, pointing up to the next level of the
tower above the parapet.

‘Five with me, the rest hold the door,’ ordered Alith, running to a
flight of steps atop the gatehouse wall. He rammed his bow into its
quiver and drew his sword as he bounded up the final few steps to the
roof of the tower.

The slavemasters were ready and a cracking whip lashed out to greet
Alith as he ran onto the open space. Pain bit through his left arm and
he glanced down to see the sleeve of his shirt in tatters, a bloody
wound on his forearm. Snarling, he ducked beneath the flailing barbs
that snaked out towards him and launched at the whip’s wielder. The
druchii drew a knife with his free hand but Alith was too quick, driving
the point of his sword into the slavemaster’s bare chest.

More burning pain screamed across Alith’s back as another wicked blow
tore at his cloak and flesh, ripping through to the muscle. He stumbled
but Casadir was there, dashing past to cut the whipmaster’s arm at the
elbow. A reverse slash took the elf’s head clean off.

The emaciated slaves at the wheel threw themselves at their tormentors,
battering and swinging with the chains of their manacles. As Anadriel
helped him to his feet, Alith spared a glance across to the other tower
and below. He could see black-armoured bodies tossed over the parapet by
the Shadows. Much further down, in the killing ground between the
outcrops of the walls, a phalanx of spearmen pressed towards the gate,
their shields raised against the arrows falling upon them.

‘The gate!’ shouted Alith, grabbing the nearest slave and pushing him
back towards the capstan. ‘Open the gate for your freedom!’

Alith lunged onto the nearest bar of the wheel and heaved, the weeping
slaves taking their places around him. Fire burned along Alith’s spine
and he bit back a scream of pain as he bent all of his strength to the
task. With a clank-clank-clank the chains tightened and gears turned.

‘Keep going!’ yelled Casadir from just behind Alith. ‘The gate’s
opening!’

The wheel gathered momentum and within moments ran freely as the gate
beneath swung open on its own weight. Alith flopped to the ground with a
curse. Casadir dragged him sideways from under the feet of the following
slaves as the wheel continued to spin.

With a thunderous crash, the gates slammed against the walls.

Shouts of joy and laughter echoed up from the spearmen below and Alith
pulled himself up with Casadir’s help and staggered to the parapet.
Thousands of warriors streamed into the city. On the wall, Eothlir stood
upon the battlement, the unfurled banner of the Anars held high in his
hand.

As Casadir bound Alith’s wounds with the remains of his cloak, a cry of
dismay came from the other Shadows atop the tower. Looking down into the
square inside the gate, Alith saw that the druchii beastmasters had
unleashed their monstrous creatures upon the army of Malekith. Two
enormous hydras advanced on the spearmen, smoke and fire billowing from
their jaws.

As the first of the monsters closed on them, the spearmen formed a
shield wall, their weapons jutting like silver spines. With a clatter of
wheels on stone, the chariots of Chrace charged through the gate and
swung around the spearmen. Drawn by white lions, the chariots headed
straight for one of the hydras; their prince, a tall elf wielding a
gleaming double-headed axe, led the charge.

To the right, more cages were opened and a stream of unnatural beasts
loped, skittered and slithered across the stones. Taken from the Anullii
and the wastes across the sea north of Ulthuan, the Chaotic monsters
lurched forwards, driven by the goads and whips of the beastmasters.
More spearmen moved up beside the Naggarothi, their blue banners marked
with the symbols of Yvresse.

Alith turned his attention back to the Naggarothi warriors as the
flicker of flames and the roars of the lions echoed across the
courtyard. The other hydra was almost upon the spearmen. The creature
drew back its heads and a shouted command cut across the cacophony
filling the square. As one, the spearmen dropped down, raising their
shields above their heads. Fire spewed from the hydra’s heads, lapping
against the shields of the warriors. Some fell, wreathed with smoke and
fire, their cries shrill. As the flames dispersed a bank of charnel
smoke drifted away from the scorched warriors.

‘Kill the handlers!’ gasped Alith, drawing his bow.

A shower of arrows fell upon the beastmasters behind the hydra and each
fell, pierced by several shafts. As the Shadows turned their missiles
upon the other druchii emerging from the cages, Alith watched the hydra.

Suddenly free of the goading whips and spears of its handlers, the hydra
slowed. Three of its heads bent back to examine their unmoving corpses,
the other four rose into the air, nostrils flaring as they caught the
scent of basilisks and khaltaurs. Fiery venom dripping from its maws,
the hydra heaved around its bulk and spied its enemies from the
mountains. With hisses issuing from its many throats, the hydra lumbered
into a run, heading for the other monsters.

‘Alith!’ Eoloran called up from below. ‘Come down here.’

Casadir tightened the knot on the makeshift bandages around Alith’s
torso and then took off his own cloak and fixed it around Alith’s
shoulders. With a nod of thanks, Alith trotted down the stairs. The pain
had subsided but his back was numb, and twice he almost stumbled as he
hurried down the steps.

Coming out onto the rampart, Alith found his father and grandfather in
conversation with a majestic elf lord clad in golden armour. He was dark
of hair and eye, taller and broader than both Eoloran and Eothlir. He
turned as Alith walked out of the tower, a smile on his lips.

‘Alith, I would like you to meet a very special person,’ said Eothlir,
laying an arm across his son’s shoulders and pulling him forwards. ‘This
is Prince Malekith.’

Alith bowed out of instinct, his eyes not leaving the prince’s face.
Malekith leaned forwards and took Alith by the arm, pulling him upright.

‘It is not you that should bow, it is I,’ said Malekith, and then he did
so, sweeping aside his cloak and lowering himself to one knee for a
heartbeat before standing again. ‘I owe you a debt that will not easily
be repaid.’

‘Free Nagarythe and I will consider us even,’ said Alith.

‘Alith!’ snapped Eoloran, but Malekith waved away his rebuke with a
laugh.

‘He is of the Anars, that is for sure,’ said the prince. He turned his
gaze back to Alith and his expression was earnest. ‘I agree to my part
of the bargain. The tyranny of Morathi will end today.’

The prince’s attention was drawn to a captain of the spearmen who was
striding up the steps to the wall. Malekith waved him forward.

‘This is the noble Yeasir, commander of Nagarythe and my most trusted
lieutenant,’ said Malekith. Yeasir nodded his head in greeting, somewhat
uncertainly. Malekith clapped a hand to the shoulder of his
second-in-command.

‘Well done!’ the prince exclaimed. ‘I knew you would not let me down.’

‘Highness?’ said Yeasir.

‘The city, you fool,’ laughed Malekith. ‘Now that we are in, it is only
a matter of time. I have you to thank for that.’

‘Thank you, highness, but I think you deserve more credit than I,’ said
Yeasir. He looked at the Anars. ‘And without these noble warriors, I
would still be stood outside, or perhaps lying outside with an arrow in
my belly.’

‘Yes, well I have thanked them enough already,’ said Malekith. ‘It would
be best not to give them too much credit, otherwise who knows what ideas
they might get.’

‘How did they come to be here?’ asked Yeasir.

‘Malekith sent word to us many days ago,’ said Eoloran. He went on to
explain the plan devised with Malekith and how the Anars had infiltrated
the city.

‘Well, you have my gratitude, prince,’ said Yeasir with a deep bow. He
turned to Malekith with a frown. ‘I must admit to being somewhat hurt
that you did not feel that you could trust me with this counsel,
highness.’

‘Would that I could have,’ said Malekith airily. ‘I trust you more than
I trust my own sword arm, Yeasir. I could not divulge my plan to you
lest it affect your actions in battle. I wanted the defenders to know
nothing was amiss until the gates were opened, and foreknowledge of the
Anars’ presence may well have meant that you held back until the gates
were already flung wide. We needed to keep the pressure on so that all
eyes were turned outwards rather than inwards.’

Malekith then turned to Eoloran.

‘If you would excuse me, I believe my mother is waiting for me,’ the
Naggarothi prince said, now empty of all humour.
