
TWENTY-ONE


The Sundering

The throne room at the heart of Aenarion’s palace was shrouded in
darkness. The only light came from the glow of the Witch King’s armour,
casting flickering shadows from the twelve figures that stood before
him.

The humiliation hurt more than his wounds, though they were grievous;
the blows of the Phoenix Guard had reignited the fire of Asuryan that
had been set in his flesh. Malekith did not retreat from the pain as he
had done before. He embraced it. He nurtured it. The agony in his body
fuelled the rage in his spirit.

‘I will not be denied,’ Malekith growled.

‘We are defeated, master,’ said Urathion, the sorcerer-lord who ruled
over the citadel of Ullar. ‘There are barely enough troops to defend the
walls and the army of the accursed Anars will surely come soon.’

‘Silence!’ Malekith’s shout reverberated around the hall, echoing from
the distant walls. ‘There will be no surrender.’

‘How can we resist with our armies scattered?’ asked Illeanith. The
sorceress, daughter of Thyriol, asked the question in a whisper, voice
full of fear. ‘It will take too long to withdraw our garrisons to the
city.’

‘We will have a new army, one that Imrik and his fawning minions will
never defeat,’ said Malekith.

The Witch King stood up, armoured feet ringing on the stone floor as he
took several steps closer to the ring of wizards. He held out a smoking
hand and cut the air with a finger. A line appeared, bulging with
energy; a torrent of formless colour and noise screamed from the tear in
reality. The line widened to a gap, pulled apart by clawed hands to
reveal leering daemonic faces. A scaled arm reached through.

The rift into the Realm of Chaos wavered. The arm withdrew as the rent
sealed itself, disappearing with the sound of tearing metal. It had
lasted a few moments, but left no trace of its existence.

‘Daemons?’ said Urathion.

‘An endless army to command,’ said Morathi, stepping into the circle,
her skull staff in hand. ‘Immortal and impervious. What better host to
serve the lord of Nagarythe?’

‘It would take all of our power to summon a handful of daemons,’ said
Drutheira, once an acolyte of Morathi, now a fully accomplished
sorceress. Her dark hair was twisted with silver and her pale skin
painted with runes. ‘There are yet the artifices of Vaul that can
destroy a daemon’s form; enough weapons to defeat any host that we might
conjure.’

‘We do not have to summon them,’ said Malekith. ‘We need only to break
the bars that keep them imprisoned in the Realm of Chaos.’

There was silence as the cabal considered what this meant. It was
Urathion that broke the quiet.

‘You mean Caledor’s vortex?’ said the sorcerer.

‘It cannot be done,’ said Drutheira. ‘The vortex is powered by the
lodestones of Ulthuan. We would have to destroy them, and most are in
the lands of our enemies.’

‘It can be done,’ said Morathi. ‘Not by destroying the lodestones, but
by overloading them.’

‘A sacrifice,’ said Malekith. ‘Together we will create a surge of dark
magic, enough to disrupt the harmony of the vortex. Its own power will
do the rest, dragging that blast of energy into its heart.’

‘Is this wise?’ asked Urathion. ‘Without the vortex, the Realm of Chaos
will be set free upon the winds of magic. Not even together can we
control that power.’

‘It does not need to be controlled, simply directed,’ said Malekith. He
raised a smouldering finger to the circlet set into his helm. ‘With that
power turned to our ends, I have the means to focus its energies. Our
enemies will be swept aside by a tide of daemons. Only those favoured by
me shall survive. I will have both victory and vengeance in one stroke.’

The cabal looked at each other. Some seemed eager, others more
concerned.

‘What other choice do we have?’ asked Auderion, dragging black-nailed
fingers through his white hair. His gaze flickered nervously from one
member of the cabal to another, never stopping. ‘We cannot hold out
forever, and our lives will be forfeit.’

‘Our spirits are already forfeit,’ whispered Illeanith. ‘Bargains we
have made and promises of blood have not been kept. I will not go easily
to that fate.’

‘Imagine their terror,’ said Drutheira. ‘Imagine the horror unleashed
upon those that scorned us, abandoned us. We will rid the world of the
Dragon­tamer’s legacy, reverse the mistake he made and erase the insult
upon Aenarion’s legend.’

Some of the cabal remained silent, not daring to speak though their
unease was as palpable as the heat from Malekith’s armour. Worried eyes
glittered in the gloom.

Urathion bowed his head to Malekith.

‘Forgive my objections, master,’ he said, dropping to one knee. ‘What
must we do?’

‘Return to your castles and gather such acolytes and slaves as you still
possess. Morathi will furnish you with the details of the ritual you
must undertake. At the appointed hour, midnight ten days from now, we
will begin. The blood of our sacrifices will draw the dark magic and our
incantations shall send it as a storm into the vortex.’

‘What of the Sapherians?’ said Illeanith. ‘My father and his mages will
try to stop us.’

‘How can they?’ said Morathi. ‘By the time they know what is happening,
it will be too late for them to intervene.’

‘Even if they do, they do not have the power to stop us,’ said Malekith.
‘The vortex was wrought by Caledor Dragontamer at the height of his
strength. Not even your father can contest with such a spell.’

There were no further questions or objections. The sorcerers and
sorceresses bowed and departed, leaving Malekith alone with Morathi.

‘If you are wrong?’ said Morathi. ‘If we cannot harness the vortex?’

‘The daemons will rampage across the world and all will be destroyed,’
said Malekith.

‘And you are sure you wish to risk such an end?’ said Morathi.

‘Risk it?’ Malekith replied with a harsh laugh. ‘I embrace it! If
Ulthuan will not be mine, then none will rule. I would rather our people
perished than see them laid low by the hand of another. Better it is to
see the world torn asunder than suffer this eternal torment.’

As he had sworn to Alith Anar, Caledor withdrew his army across the
Annulii, back to Avelorn. Many of his warriors he sent back to their
kingdoms; some to solemnly bear the bodies of the princes who had been
slain. Dorien was despatched to Caledor to take the news of the Phoenix
King’s victory, while Carathril was sent into the ruins of Avelorn
seeking to convey the same to the Everqueen.

Thyriol remained with the army, concerned by the Phoenix King’s wounds.
Though he professed publicly to be regaining his strength, Caledor
confessed in private that he was weak. He did not feel ready to return
to the Isle of the Flame, and so stayed in Avelorn with the army, ready
to respond should things go badly for the shadow army in their attempt
to overthrow the rule of Anlec.

The days were shortening and Caledor spent most of his time in his
pavilion, resting and pondering what he would do next. One evening,
twelve days after the battle at Maledor, he asked Thyriol to join him.

‘You must find another Phoenix King,’ said Caledor.

‘What is wrong?’ asked the shocked mage, hurrying to the Phoenix King’s
side. ‘Your wounds, do they not heal?’

‘It is not my body that is weak, it is my heart,’ Caledor answered. ‘The
war will be over soon. My time as king should end with it.’

Though still concerned, the panic left the mage and he sat down beside
the king’s throne, tucking his hands into the voluminous sleeves of his
robe.

‘You think that you will not be a good leader in peace?’ Thyriol asked.

‘I know it,’ said Caledor. ‘You know it too. I am not made for audiences
and councils. You will need a better leader than I to rebuild Ulthuan
and start afresh in the colonies.’

‘Princes are thin on the ground of late,’ Thyriol said with a sad smile.
‘There is no other, I think, who could wear the crown.’

‘You could,’ said Caledor. ‘You have the wisdom and the experience
needed. You see the hearts of our people better than I.’

‘Please do not say anything to the others about this. At least let us
ensure that the druchii are truly defeated before we turn their minds to
what happens after. Morathi is like a manticore, with a spiteful sting
when cornered. Talk of peace is premature.’

‘Perhaps you are right,’ said Caledor. He leaned back in his throne, his
bones aching. ‘It will seem a strange world.’

‘I think you will be pleasantly surprised,’ said Thyriol. ‘Life demands
a certain harmony and will tend towards that state. In a few years, in
your lifetime, you will see the world returned to the way it was. Cities
can be rebuilt, and children will still grow up. Like your father, you
will be glad that generations from now will prosper free from the blight
of war. That will be your legacy.’

The thought brought some little comfort to the Phoenix King. He rested
his weary body, eyes closed, and tried to picture Ulthuan as it had
been. He could not. Wherever he looked with his mind’s eye, be it at
Cothique or Lothern, Avelorn or Chrace, he saw the death and destruction
brought about by the war.

He lifted a hand to his chin, to the small scar where the assassin’s
knife had nicked his flesh, and he wondered if the druchii had forever
poisoned Ulthuan. Would the evil they had unleashed, and the violence he
had committed to stop them, ever be expunged from the hearts of the
elves?

He heard Thyriol stir, a murmur of unease coming from the mage’s lips. A
few moments later Caledor felt that which had disturbed the mage. There
was an undercurrent in the winds of magic, a dark eddy of power.

He opened his eyes and thought for a heartbeat that he was under attack.
The lanterns in the pavilion seemed to dim, the shadows deepening. He
realised that he did not imagine the thickening gloom; the lamps were
extinguishing themselves.

Thyriol stood, the tip of his staff glowing.

‘Sorcery,’ the mage whispered. ‘Stay still.’

The pavilion was now utterly dark, save for the small circle of light
that surrounded the Phoenix King and the mage. Noise came, the sound of
running water and wind howling over rocks. The darkness shifted, paling
in places, shapes merging to form an image.

‘The magic is not here, though,’ muttered Thyriol. ‘The spell is cast
somewhere else.’

The spectre of an elf appeared in the gloom, hooded and swathed in
black. He pulled back his hood to reveal a haggard face, hair hanging
lankly about his shoulders. Sunken eyes looked first at Caledor and then
Thyriol. It was to the mage that the apparition turned.

‘I am Urathion of Ullar,’ said the elf. ‘I do not have long and will not
reach you in person. Malekith has sent the raven heralds after me. Heed
my warning, Thyriol, and prepare.’

‘Prepare for what?’ said Caledor.

‘The vortex,’ said Urathion, his shade still looking at Thyriol.
‘Malekith and the other sorcerers attempt to unbind its powers, letting
free the Realm of Chaos.’

‘Madness!’ exclaimed Thyriol. ‘Ulthuan will be destroyed.’

‘Yes, it is madness,’ said Urathion. ‘I have done evil things and I do
not regret them. The power I have wielded and the things I have seen
have been reward enough. Yet even I see that this cannot be allowed.
Malekith would rather see the world destroyed than live in defeat.’

‘How will he do this?’ demanded Thyriol. ‘Tell me of the spell and I
will thwart it.’

‘A huge sacrifice is planned,’ said Urathion. ‘Malekith and Morathi will
infuse the vortex with dark magic and let loose the hosts of Chaos upon
you. It is too late to prevent the ceremony, you must prot–’

The apparition of Urathion gave a strangled gasp and stiffened. As the
shadows lightened, Caledor saw the sorcerer fall to his face, a bolt
jutting from between his shoulders. Beyond was the silhouette of a
cloaked rider with crossbow in hand. The light of the lamps returned to
obscure the image, bringing with it a sense of unreality.

Caledor looked to Thyriol. The mage’s brow was furrowed in thought and
his fingers tapped nervously along his staff.

‘Do you think this is a trick?’ said the Phoenix King. ‘Perhaps Malekith
seeks to lure you into a sorcerous trap.’

‘That is a risk I must take,’ replied Thyriol. ‘If it is true, Malekith
must be stopped. Urathion did not exaggerate. If the vortex is
destroyed, we are doomed. Even if Ulthuan survives the loss of the
vortex, the daemonic hordes will return. You and I are not Aenarion and
your grandfather, we cannot stop such an invasion. Our people will be
slain and enslaved by the powers of Chaos. I must go now.’

‘Where to?’ said Caledor. ‘Can this spell be stopped?’

‘The Isle of the Dead,’ said Thyriol, answering the first question and
avoiding the second. ‘The centre of the vortex.’

Chanting a spell, the mage drew an arc in the air with the tip of his
staff. The air parted where the staff passed, creating an arch of golden
energy. Within its arc, Caledor could see ghostly apparitions; robed
elves as immobile as statues, frozen within a glimmering aura.

‘Your battle is won, now I must win mine,’ said Thyriol.

The mage stepped through the magical door, which vanished with a shower
of falling sparks. Caledor stayed in his throne, gripping its arms with
white-knuckled hands. Shaking himself from the shock, he pushed himself
up and walked outside on weak legs.

The sky was clear, the stars a bright swathe across the heavens. Caledor
looked west, to the Annulii, where the vortex made the air shimmer
around the peaks.

‘Asuryan, lord of the heavens,’ he whispered. ‘You did not answer the
prayers of Aenarion and I do not expect you to listen to me. Yet for all
that, I am your king and rule in your name, and upon me your blessing
was laid. If you love my people, do not let them be destroyed.’

His short prayer finished, Caledor knew there was nothing else he could
do. He remained where he was, eyes fixed on the Annulii, and drew
Lathrain. If the daemons came again, he would not die without a fight.

The hall was awash with blood. It moved with its own sluggish life,
hissing and sizzling at Malekith’s feet, lapping over the twisted bodies
of his victims. Morathi chanted, staff held above her head, an
incantation calling upon all of the daemons and powers with which she
had made pacts during her long life. The air seethed with dark energy,
flowing from walls to ceiling, making the symbols and runes painted in
blood on the stone glow with ruddy power.

Through the circlet, the Witch King could feel the rising tide of dark
magic across Nagarythe. In castles and towers across the barren kingdom
his followers despatched their sacrifices and used their deaths to draw
on the winds of magic, the mystical forces congealing together under the
sorcerous influence of the Naggarothi.

Morathi’s incantation was reaching its crescendo. Her voice was a wail,
her body shuddering, the coils of dark magic thickening and
strengthening as they whirled around the throne room.

Reaching out his hands, Malekith felt the slick touch of the magic on
his iron skin. The circlet gleamed on his brow and filled his mind with
ice as the Witch King grasped and manipulated the formless energy with
his will, shaping it, turning its convoluted waves into a rhythmically
pulsing cloud.

‘Now!’ screamed Morathi, her staff blazing.

Malekith flung the dark magic up, spearing its energies through the
palace of Aenarion. He could feel the other columns of power erupting
across his kingdom, pillars of pure magical energy roaring up into the
heavens.

The magic hissed liked a serpent, throwing coils of power around the
dungeon chamber, thrashing wildly. Illeanith gritted her teeth and spat
words of control, almost imploring the dark energy to obey her. She
staggered back as another surge of magic rose up through her, bursting
from her open mouth.

Eyes wide, the sorceress gasped every word of the incantation, speaking
them over and over and over, cajoling and threatening the creatures that
existed on the other side of reality’s veil. The blackness that tainted
her skin was spreading. Already her hands were completely ebon, and the
corruption was leeching up through her darkening veins, making them pop
out of the skin of her bared arms.

Illeanith’s lips and gums were fizzing with magic and her eyes ached
with the power. Her long hair writhed like rearing serpents, sparks
flying from the flaring tips. The whole of the tower shook and the
clean-hewn stones groaned and ground together.

The other world, the Realm of Chaos, started to intrude through the
swirl of magic. Illeanith half-glimpsed maddening vistas of trees of
finger bones and clouds that rained molten silver. The squeals and
screeches, roars and howls of the daemons filled the chamber, echoing
from the walls while simultaneously fading into distance.

Something hunched and ruddy, its bulbous head elongated, globular eyes
white, burst into the room. It whirled around orientating itself with
the surroundings, its wiry limbs tensed, a bronze sword in its hands
dripping thick blood.

Illeanith shrieked and backed away from the creature, which fixed upon
her its lifeless stare. In her fright, the sorceress stumbled and fell,
one hand passing through the symbol of salt she had laid upon the floor.

With the mystical sigil broken, the dark magic was let loose. It
rampaged around Illeanith, smashing the walls, ripping up the tiles of
the floor, prodding and slashing at her, pulling her hair and tugging at
her teeth. More of the daemons formed in the mayhem, snarling, predatory
things that immediately set upon the first with fanged maws and slashing
tails. Illeanith struggled to her feet, weeping blood. A thick tar-like
substance leaked from her mouth, choking her as she clutched at her
throat. The sorceress gurgled a cry of agony as her veins burst, magic
boiling like sludge from her ruptured blood vessels.

Bones cracked and splintered, ripping forth more wet screams from
Illeanith. She crumpled, falling face-first, her arm snapping beneath
her as she tried to stop her head hitting the slabs. The daemons swarmed
around her, their fang-ringed mouths gnawing and tearing at her spirit
as well as her flesh.

Her last cry died away, but the damage had been done. The dark magic
flowed from the breach in the rune, burrowing through the stones,
prising apart the blocks with tenebrous tendrils of power. The daemons’
forms lost cohesion and they evaporated into the miasma, which continued
to spin and roil, seeking escape.

With a thunderous detonation that hurled stone and earth high into the
air, the dark magic exploded from the dungeon, toppling the tower. It
spiralled and spun, bubbling across Nagarythe towards the Annulii,
joining the other streamers of dark power cutting across the cold night.

Caledor felt the ground shudder. It was faint but strong enough that
soon the elves of the camp were leaving their tents, fearful questions
being asked. The Phoenix King ignored them and continued to stare at the
glimmer over the mountains.

One by one the stars seemed to wink out of existence. The aura of the
vortex strengthened, becoming something more than a hint on the edge of
vision. Caledor could see the whirling energy, pick out the strands of
magic cascading down the peaks, swirling in pools in the valleys.

He looked overhead and saw the darkness spreading, leaching the light
from the stars. The air grew colder as the dark magic funnelled down the
vortex, drawn towards the Isle of the Dead at the centre of the Inner
Sea. Forks of energy played along the glowing ribbons of magic. Turning
east he saw the magic plunging down like a tornado, growing thicker and
brighter with each passing heartbeat.

Malekith strode to an iron balcony adjoining the chamber, Morathi
hurrying after him. He turned his flaming gaze to the east and saw the
ravening energies gathering across the mountaintops.

‘It is done,’ said Morathi.

She pointed high into the heavens, to the north. Lights burned in the
sky, silhouetting the horizon with a rainbow of colours that were
constantly shifting. The magical aurora flickered, spitting bolts of
energy to the ground and up towards the disappearing stars.

Malekith could see through the anarchy of shape and colour. Towering
spires of crystal and rivers of blood; cliffs with screaming skull-like
faces and forests of waving tentacles; castles of bronze and a huge
dilapidated mansion; plains covered with splintered bones and white
beaches rippled by purple waters; clouds of flies and miniature suns
that glared with cyclopean eyes.

And he heard the roaring and the howls, the screaming and the growls.
Marching and slithering, swooping and leaping, a host of daemons poured
forth.

‘The Realm of Chaos opens,’ he rasped, feeling triumphant. ‘My legions
awake!’

Staggering against the buffeting of the magical gale, Thyriol pushed
himself on towards the distant figures of Caledor Dragontamer and the
other mages. His whole body was afire with magic, exhilarating and
painful in equal measure.

He could feel the counterspells of his fellows, given hasty warning by
their prince. Counter-currents and whirling siphons raced around the
vortex as the mages of Saphery tried to claw back the power being
unleashed.

Thyriol could see that their attempts would be in vain; it was like
trying to empty the Inner Sea with a thimble. Overhead the vortex grew
stronger and stronger, the weight of it on his shoulders making every
step a near-impossible effort, every breath a ragged gasp for life.

He heard the wailing and roaring of the daemons before he saw them. At
first they were nothing more than motes of energy cast around by the
vortex; brief glimpses of fanged faces and sharp talons that were soon
swallowed by the mass of power. As he pushed on, the daemons fed on the
magic, forming bodies of pure energy, dancing and twisting along the
circling currents of mystical power.

Their whispers came to his ears, threatening all manner of cruel
torment.

Thyriol drove all other things from his mind, focussing on his goal,
giving no thought to any other desire or need that might be perverted by
the daemons. His staff cracked and then exploded into a shower of
splinters, unable to hold the magic coursing through it. The charms upon
his bracelets, the amulets around his neck, spat and hissed with power,
whirling about as if caught in a gale.

He pressed on.

‘To arms!’ Caledor bellowed. ‘Protect yourselves!’

Faster than any mortal host, the daemons poured down from the mountains,
riding upon the waves of magic. A beast with a slug-like body and fanged
maw fringed with writhing tentacles materialised in front of the Phoenix
King.

All thought of pain and weakness were gone. Caledor slashed Lathrain
through the creature, parting it in a blaze of fire and magical sparks.
Gibbering, wretched things plunged from the sky on wings of darkness, to
be met with the shining blade forged for Caledor
Dragontamer.

Around the Phoenix King, the elves of his army did their best to fight.
Their arrows and spears did little harm to the immaterial creatures that
attacked them. A few wielded heirlooms from the last daemonic invasion,
spears and swords and axes forged in Vaul’s Anvil now turned again to
their original purpose.

The ground was thick with magic and the sky filled with a roiling storm
cloud of pure energy. Caledor glanced up as he thought he heard a deep
rumbling laugh, glimpsing for a moment a monstrous thing of no
particular form but unimaginably terrifying. He fought without thought,
hacking and thrusting at any daemonic thing that came within range.

For an age the elves had survived, building an empire and thinking that
peace was eternal. As the daemons cackled and shrieked around him,
Caledor realised how fickle that existence had been. He wept as he
battled, thinking how cruel a world it was that his grandfather’s
greatest legacy was undone.

Blinded and deafened, his whole body a searing torrent of ecstasy and
pain, Thyriol clawed his way across the ravaged ground. He was guided
only by his inner magical sense, feeling his way through the anarchy of
the vortex’s heart. With every laboured heartbeat he felt the vortex
weakening, the lodestones unable to cope with the magic of the druchii
and the power of the daemons. Very soon it would collapse entirely and
all would be lost.

The mage felt like a speck of dust in a hurricane, physically and in his
spirit, but clung on with every shred of willpower to maintain his sense
of self and purpose.

As if passing into a gap between realities, Thyriol felt everything
disappear. The noise, the confusion, the pain all vanished, leaving him
with a sense of pure peace. He had reached the eye of the vortex, the
very centre of the magical storm.

He did not know if his plan would work, but he had spent his life
studying the work of Caledor Dragontamer and the principles of the
vortex. If he was wrong, it would only hasten the vortex’s collapse.

He had nothing to lose.

Pushing himself up to a kneeling position, Thyriol bowed his head and
folded his hands in his lap. There was no ground beneath him nor sky
above him. He was utterly isolated, floating in nothingness. He was not
even sure if his body had survived. In this place, in the tiniest sliver
between realities, the grey edge between light and dark, the cusp of
life and death, such things as immortal and mortal, body and spirit,
were irrelevant.

Within his clasped hands, he released the tiny mote of magic he had
brought with him. It was barely anything, perhaps enough to give life to
the smallest insect. He opened his hands and the tiny particle of magic
floated up, a minute glimmer in nothingness.

Releasing his grip upon the magic, he allowed it to interact with the
void.

The magic exploded, turning into an infinite sun, filling the gap
between worlds. The barriers between the real and the immaterial fell
away, breaking the last bonds that held the Realm of Chaos in check.

The vortex was complete, a solid whirl of magic whose reach stretched
across the whole world. Far to the east, dwarfen runesmiths paused in
their labours, wondering why the runes they worked on guttered and died.
In their ancient, jungle-devoured cities to the west, the immortal
servants of the Old Ones paused in their calculations and
contemplations. Alien intelligences turned their attention to the sudden
change in the world, coldly assessing its importance.

Opening his eyes, Thyriol found himself still on the Isle of the Dead.

‘I see,’ said a voice behind him.

Thyriol turned, coming face-to-face with an aged elf with a thin face
and silver hair. The mage recognised him instantly, from a hundred
statues and a thousand paintings: Caledor Dragontamer.

The influx of magic had broken the stasis as Thyriol had hoped.

The greatest mage of the elves appeared calm even as the vortex raged
and bucked around him. Other mages appeared out of the anarchic storm,
robes flapping in the unnatural breeze, staffs in hand.

They formed a circle around Thyriol, eyes cast upwards. The prince of
Saphery joined them and saw a pinprick of night amidst the magic, the
briefest glimmer of a star.

‘This will not end well,’ said the Dragontamer, ‘but it cannot be
helped.’

The assembled mages lifted up their staffs and began their chants. At
first nothing happened and Thyriol could not divine their purpose.
Slowly, imperceptibly at first, the vortex slowed. Centred around the
circle of mages another vortex began, running in the opposite direction.

Gathering power this second vortex created ripples through the magical
storm. It grew larger and larger, feeding off the magic, gathering pace
even as the main vortex slowed. Thyriol watched amazed as Caledor
Dragontamer turned the vortex against itself. Where magic had once been
drained from the mortal realm, now it was being channelled from the
Realm of Chaos. Faster and faster the counter-vortex whirled, erupting
with flashes of dark amidst the light, bubbling clouds of pure energy
flowing against the roiling winds of magic.

The two conflicting vortices reached parity and the world froze.

His sword slashing the throat of yet another blood-skinned daemon,
Caledor felt the ground lurch, almost throwing him from his feet. As
one, the daemon horde fell still and silent, even more unnerving than
their shouts and screams. They turned unnatural eyes towards the vortex
as the ground bucked again.

Light detonated to the east, surging up through the funnel of the
vortex. A moment before he was blinded by it, Caledor saw the daemonic
host bursting into flames, the cinders of their bodies turning to
crystalline dust.

Another convulsion of the earth toppled the Phoenix King, who fell
heavily to his side. He heard and felt a deep rumble, coming from the
bowels of the world. Looking up through slitted eyes he saw the mountain
peaks swaying, the vortex rippling and pulsing. Avalanches crashed down
from the peaks and cliffs tumbled, toppling down the slopes.

Thyriol has failed, he thought. This is how the world ends.

‘No!’ screamed Morathi.

Malekith felt it too, a presence he had not known for more than a
thousand years. The Dragontamer had returned. The Witch King did not
know how, but he would not be defeated so easily. He poured out all of
his scorn and hatred, looking to wrench control of the vortex from the
elf who had betrayed his father. Morathi sensed what he was doing and
added her own sorcery, seeking to overcome the Dragontamer’s spell.

The two waves of magic clashed within the vortex, detonating with a
blaze of multicoloured light that swept away the storm, converting both
high and dark magic into a huge detonation. Malekith felt it as a
shockwave that pulsed across Ulthuan, flattening trees and toppling
towers. He sensed the mountains lurching as the vortex spun again.

He felt something else too, like the world was tipping on its axis. The
magic unleashed rocked Ulthuan, ripping earth and sky with its power. A
crack appeared in the city wall of Anlec as a huge fissure opened up in
the ground to the north. Roofs collapsed and walls toppled as Anlec
convulsed. Everywhere across Nagarythe the dark magic earthed itself,
mighty spires of rock erupting from the ground while huge pits and
crevasses dropped down.

‘What is that noise?’ said Morathi, looking to the north.

In one of Nagarythe’s northernmost towers, Drutheira laughed gaily at
the magical battle being fought. She delighted in the clash and merging
of energies, marvelling at the patterns of light and dark wrought across
the stars.

Her laughter died away as she felt the first tremors of the earthquake.
Around her tall candle holders fell to the flagstones and lamps of elf
fat spilled from their sconces. She staggered to her left as the world
lurched, the beams holding up the ceiling creaking alarmingly. A cloud
of mortar showered down on to Drutheira as she struggled to remain
upright.

The whole tower swayed and cracked, like a tree in a gale. Its movement
sent her reeling into the wall, next to one of the narrow windows.
Grasping the sill, she looked outside and saw the stars spinning
overhead. In the light of the crazily dancing moons she could see the
rocks of the coast.

The shore stretched away into the night, far further than any natural
tide. She could see fish flopping on the dry land and splashing in small
pools left between the rocks. It was if a god had come down and taken a
titanic draught from the seas, leaving mud and wet sand covering a
massive expanse to the north and west.

It was then that she heard the rumbling and saw the first glimmer of
surf in the distance. She knew immediately what it meant and hastily
returned to the pentacle drawn in blood at the centre of the chamber.

The magic was a wild, bucking stallion that refused to be broken to her
will, slipping and rearing from her grasp as she chanted madly, trying
to reach into the maelstrom of energy for the power needed to cast her
spell.

She finally latched on to a straying aura of dark magic. Slitting her
breast with her sacrificial dagger, she offered up her own blood to seal
the conjuration. Dark magic rushed into her, as the sea rushed to fill
the gap that had been made along the shore.

Drutheira plunged her spirit down into the foundations of the tower,
carrying with her the formless cloud of dark energy. She allowed herself
to seep down into the rocks and tunnels on which the tower stood,
breaking them free from the strata of the earth beneath. Further and
further she stretched her spell, opening up massive cracks around the
outer wall of the citadel, lifting the entire structure from the
bedrock.

Returning to her body, she stared out of the window and saw that she had
cast the spell just in time.

Malekith turned, gripping the rail of the balcony tight as the palace
swayed on its foundations, turrets and towers crashing down onto the
buildings below in a flurry of broken stone and tiles.

To the north was a wall of white. It looked like fog at first, a bank of
cloud swiftly approaching from the north-west. It brought an odd
hissing, which deepened as the cloud came closer.

Malekith felt a moment of dread as he realised it was not a cloud that
approached, but a wall of water. As though the ocean had heaved itself
up in protest, a tidal wave stretched across the horizon, shining in the
moonlight, as high as the tallest tower of Anlec.

The wave buried Nagarythe under its titanic assault and crashed across
the Naganar into Tiranoc. Sweeping everything before it, the onrushing
ocean crushed towns, flattened forests and cast down city walls.

In Elanardris Alith Anar looked on in horror as the kingdom he had
claimed as his was drowned. The water surged up the mountain valleys,
washing away the remains of the manse of the Anars. The foaming surge
drove up the river valleys, obliterating everything in its path.

Shouting warnings to his followers, the Shadow King led them higher up
the slopes, abandoning their rude huts and cave dwellings to the
encroaching sea. Many on the lower slopes had no time to escape. Tents
and campfires were engulfed by the frothing mass, which swallowed up
hundreds of elves, young and old, dragging them to their deaths and
crushing their bodies with uprooted trees and grinding boulders.

The ruins of Tor Anroc were drowned. Water coursed along the ancient
tunnel-streets of the city and poured through the shattered remnants of
the palace. The great white cliffs crumbled and the orchards of cherry
and apple were obliterated. Bel Shanaar’s throne room filled with water,
the benches and throne rising with the water, swirled and smashed
together by the torrent raging through the broken windows.

The alleys and passageways became swirling rivers, the rising sea
smashing through doors to fill the subterranean workshops and stores,
the walls and buildings of the noble manses pulverised by the deluge.
The great towers at the gate were cast down, crumbling stone by stone
into the all-encompassing flood.

Finally the great pinnacle of Tor Anroc toppled. Magic flaring as the
needle-like structure fell, for a brief moment the blue fire of the
Phoenix King burned again, before it too was drowned by the incoming
waters.

Far to the south, Dorien was awoken from a deep sleep during which he
had dreamed of an army of daemons besieging Tor Caled. Roused from his
slumber, he sat up in bed, haunted by the strange voices that lingered
after the dream had passed.

He felt the first tremors shaking the bed and was filled with
foreboding. Pushing himself to his feet, he was hurled off the ground as
the whole of the palace rose and fell in a moment, followed by an
ear-splitting crack.

Alarm bells and gongs were ringing all across the city. The prince
­fumbled his way to the great windows that led onto the balcony
overlooking Tor Caled. Throwing open the doors, he moved out to the rail
and turned to look back at the mountains, which shouldered up over the
city.

Fire burst from the peak of Anul Caled. Flame and smoke wreathed the
mountaintop and burning rocks sailed high into the skies. Cracks were
opening up on the mountainside, venting flame and vapour, rivulets of
lava beginning to pour from the breaches.

There were shouts and screams from the city below. Dorien looked down
across the levels of Tor Caled and saw torches and lamps moving in the
darkness as elves fled from their homes. The fortifications were
tumbling down and buildings collapsing as Tor Caled continued to buck
and heave alongside the volcanoes’ eruptions.

The moat of lava surged and raged against the magical wards holding it
in check. The bridges across the fiery river swayed and fell, their
stones disappearing into the red depths. Dorien looked on in horror as
those trying to flee the city were plunged to their flaming deaths.

They were trapped inside the city.

A cloud of hot ash swept down from Anul Caled, a billowing miasma of
darkness and death that engulfed the city in moments. Dorien fought for
breath in the superheated air, choking on the fumes and heat of the
cloud. Along with thousands of those over whom he had been guardian, the
prince was quickly engulfed by the ash, his clothes and hair burning,
his skin peeling away even as his flesh petrified.

To the east, across the great expanse of the Inner Sea, the mages of
Saphery had been lending their weight to the duel for control of the
vortex. In the palace of Saphethion, Menreir and a cohort of fellow
mages chanted and channelled, seeking to avert the disaster befalling
their isle.

They too felt the reappearance of Caledor Dragontamer and paused in
their incantations, wondering at the import of the event. As they
watched the counter-vortex begin to take shape, the crystalline nervous
system of Saphethion started to resonate with the new wave of magic
pouring into the world. The diamond-like heart of the city quivered and
shook in its golden nest, vibrating in tune with the whirling storm of
magic and anti-magic ­raging through the vortex.

With a detonation that resounded in the minds of the mages, the crystal
heart shattered, rocking the city from within. Magic exploded along the
crystal lodeways, splitting rock with showers of fire and lightning.

Saphethion seemed to sag in the air.

Horrified, the mages could do nothing as the floating city descended
towards the foothills of the Annulii. The streets outside the palace
were quickly thronged with elves, screaming and shouting, while eagles
and pegasi launched from the stablehouses, taking their riders to
safety.

Menreir and the others did what they could to slow the city’s descent,
but it was too little. Towers and buildings were flattened as Saphethion
crashed into a hillside, roofs collapsing, filling the streets with
debris, crushing hundreds of elves with falling masonry and beams.

Secondary magical detonations rocked the city, causing blazes to spread
through some quarters as tanneries and workshops caught fire. The palace
itself was wreathed in magical energy, lightning forking from tower tops
to walls, while within the building the many magical artefacts and
devices of the Sapherians burned and glowed, hissed and spat with more
magic than the world had seen for an age.

In Nagarythe, Malekith’s sorcerous followers watched in horror as the
tidal wave engulfed their lands. They used the last of their dark powers
to protect their citadels, casting enchantments that sundered the
foundations of their towers, allowing them to be lifted up by the wave
like immense ships.

In Anlec, Morathi wreathed the palace of Aenarion with her magic, though
she could not protect the rest of the city. Water crashed against the
towering pinnacle, smashing away stone and brick. Calling upon her
daemonic allies, the sorceress ripped the immense palace free from the
city, the water boiling and frothing below it as the massive edifice
rose up above the waves and Anlec was tumbled into ruin.
