
TWENTY-SIX


The Witch King

Snow crunched lightly underfoot as the shadow army gathered amongst the
ruins of the ancient manse. It was a grisly scene, the blackened stones
still littered with the bones of the dead druchii, while the scorched
earth where Alith had built the pyres was still bare. A tree grew in the
middle of what had once been the great hall; ivy and thorny bushes
climbed their way into Alith’s bed chambers.

For six days the shadow warriors had mustered here on Alith’s command,
dispersing by night for reasons of safety. Alith felt sure that this day
would be the last. Scouts had brought word in the night that a druchii
army was camped in the foothills, larger than anything seen for a
decade. It had to be the Witch King’s host.

Seven days ago, word had reached the Shadow King that Anlec was emptying
of its army. At first Alith had thought this host would head south to
Tiranoc, perhaps to assault Caledor. The following day he learned that
it marched eastwards, towards the mountains.

The time had come to confront this foe. Alith could feel it in the air.
The snows were light, the clouds grey over the mountains. There was a
strange calm in the wilderness. Dark magic tugged at the edge of Alith’s
senses. Yes, he told himself, today he would know the truth.

Mid-morning brought shouts from the east, where a rider had been spotted
coming down from the mountains. Alith sent word that he was to be
allowed to approach, knowing that it would be Elthyrior. He would not be
anywhere else on such a momentous day.

Sure enough, the raven herald rode into the ruins, his steed picking its
way nimbly though the tumbled stones and hummocks of earth that
concealed so many of the dead. His hood was thrown back, revealing his
pale, pinched features. In his right hand he carried a spear, but
something was bound along half its length, wrapped in a waxed canvas
shining with water droplets.

Elthyrior spied Alith and directed his steed towards the Shadow King.

‘I see it is not only my enemy that I have brought out of hiding,’ said
Alith as Elthyrior dismounted.

‘The time has come to return this,’ said the raven herald, handing Alith
the bound spear shaft.

‘What is it?’

‘Cut free the bindings when the Witch King comes,’ said Elthyrior, ‘and
you will see.’

‘Do you know who the Witch King is?’ asked Alith.

Elthyrior shook his head.

‘You have far more eyes and ears than I, Alith,’ he said. ‘Besides, did
you not venture into Anlec to find out?’

‘I got distracted,’ Alith replied, though he had the decency to blush
while he said it. ‘I am glad that you are here.’

‘There are few of us left, and I do not think the raven heralds will
survive this war,’ replied Elthyrior. ‘Our time has passed.’

Alith was disturbed by this. If there had been one constant throughout
his turmoil of so long, it had been Elthyrior. The raven herald had been
many things – a guardian, an ally and companion – though never quite
friend.

‘The Shadow King watches over Nagarythe,’ said Elthyrior with a lopsided
smile. ‘Morai-heg gives way to Kurnous, and moves her all-seeing gaze
upon others.’

Alith could think of nothing to say, and so the two of them stood
side-by-side in silence, looking to the west. It was not long before the
druchii army could be seen, marching along the road from the north-west,
cutting across the foothills in ribbons of black. Alith scanned the
skies, searching for sign of dragon riders or manticores, but there was
nothing. It seemed that Alith’s plan had succeeded: the Witch King would
confront him personally.

For all that he had experienced, Alith felt a slight twinge of
nervousness as the druchii army spread out across the hills. Their
number was inconceivable, more than a hundred thousand at a rough guess.
Where had so many warriors come from Alith had no idea. Had Morathi
hoarded so many troops all of these years, perhaps waiting for the right
leader to emerge?

Some distance away the army halted, out of bolt thrower range. The
intent was clear: Alith was to feel no immediate threat and stay where
he stood.

Whispers and shouts of alarm caused Alith to look at his shadow
warriors. They pointed to the skies, where a dragon appeared through the
clouds, descending slowly. It was the largest beast Alith had seen,
half-again as big as the dragon that had carried Kheranion. Alith was
about to call for his army to flee to the hills but stopped as the
dragon circled back towards the druchii army, landing in front of it.

A tall figure dismounted, dropping to the ground beside the monster. The
air shimmered around him, a haze of dark mists and rising heat. Alith
watched closely as the Witch King approached.

He was far taller than any elf, and clad in an all-encompassing suit of
black armour. He carried a shield adorned with a gold relief of a
hateful rune that burned Alith’s eyes when he looked upon it. The sword
in his right hand was enveloped by blue flame from hilt to tip, casting
dancing shadows on snow.

It was the armour that caught Alith’s full attention. When the Witch
King was less than a hundred paces distant, striding purposefully up the
hill, Alith could see that it was not wholly black, but a ruddy light
glowed from within. Wisps of steam swirled around the warrior. Alith
realised with horror that the plates and mail of the armour smouldered,
every joint and rivet still hot as if recently forged. The Witch King
left molten snow and scorched earth in his wake while the air itself
recoiled from his presence, streaming away from his body in whirling
vortices.

The shadow warriors watched the Witch King carefully, bows in hand.
Alith had ordered them not to attack until his command; he needed to
know who dared call himself ruler of Nagarythe. Having seen the strength
of the Witch King’s host, there was no doubt that this warrior commanded
the loyalty of Anlec.

As the Witch King advanced through the tumbled remnants of the old gate,
Alith’s gaze was drawn in by his eyes. They were pits of black flame,
empty and yet full of energy. Nothing could be seen of his face save
those terrible orbs; the Witch King’s head was enclosed in a black and
gold helm adorned with a circlet of horns and spines made from a
silvery-grey metal that reflected no light.

Remembering Elthyrior’s gift, Alith drew his knife from his belt and cut
away the cords binding the canvas around the spear in Alith’s left hand.
He shook the shaft to dislodge the bag, which fluttered away in the
wind. Stirred by the breeze a flag snapped out from the shaft, tied with
gold-threaded rope.

The banner was tattered and stained, ragged with many holes and frayed
stitching at its edges. It had once been white, but was now dirty brown
and grey. The design upon it was indistinct but Alith recognised it
immediately as a golden griffon’s wing: the standard of House Anar.

Alith felt a surge of courage flow through him, dispelling the dread
surrounding the approaching Witch King. The banner had flown in this
place since the time of Aenarion and Alith drew on its strength, on the
power of centuries that even the blood of the Anars could not wash away.
Emboldened, Alith stared at his foe.

‘By what right do you enter these lands without the permission of Alith
Anar, lord of house Anar, Shadow King of Nagarythe?’ Alith demanded,
raising the ragged banner above his head. ‘If you come to treat with me,
hear my oath to the dead. Nothing is forgotten, nothing is forgiven!’

The Witch King stopped half a dozen paces away, the heat from his body
prickling at Alith’s skin. His infernal gaze moved up to the flag. The
Witch King sheathed his sword and gestured at the banner, a mere flick
of a finger.

The standard burst into black flames and disintegrated into a flutter of
charred flakes that were quickly taken away by the wind, leaving Alith
holding a burnt staff. He let the smoking wood drop from his fingers.

‘House Anar is dead,’ intoned the Witch King. His voice was echoing and
deep, as if coming from a distant hall. ‘Only I rule Nagarythe. Swear
loyalty to me and your past will be forgotten, your treachery forgiven.
I will grant you these lands to rule as your own, your fealty owed only
to me.’

Alith laughed.

‘You would make me a prince of graves, a custodian of nothing,’ he said.
He grew serious, eyes narrowing. ‘By what right do you demand such
loyalty?’

The Witch King stepped forwards and it took all of Alith’s nerve to hold
his ground. Strange voices hissed at the edge of hearing – spirits of
sacrifices bound within the armour. The heat was near unbearable,
causing Alith’s eyes to water, his skin cracking with dryness. Alith
licked his lips but his mouth was also parched. Worst was the crawling,
filthy sensation of dark magic that leaked through Alith, drawing the
life from his blood, chilling his heart.

‘Do you not recognise me, Alith?’ the Witch King said, bending close,
his tone quiet, swathed in a charnel aura of burning and death. ‘Will
you not serve me once more?’

The voice of the creature in front of Alith was cracked and hoarse, but
the Shadow King recognised it. A lifetime ago it had spoken words upon
which Alith had hung all his hopes and dreams. Once, in the distant
past, that voice had sworn to Alith to set Nagarythe free from tyranny
and he had believed it. Now it called for him to surrender.

It was the voice of Malekith.
