
TWO 

Darkness from Anlec

For the elves, who each live for an age of the world, time passes
quickly. A year to them is as a day to men, and so their schemes and
relationships develop slowly. Alith Anar, young and impatient, wooed
Ashniel for two years, from midsummer to midsummer, through letters and
courtship, dances and hunts. Entranced by the cool beauty of the
Naggarothi maiden, the young Anar prince put aside his greater concerns
and for a while was happy, or at least relished the promise of future
happiness. So it came about that he listened little to the whispered
worries of his parents and spent less time in the wilds, instead
closeting himself in the study and library of Elanardris learning poetry
to impress his amour or listened to tales from his mother, ancient
legends of those two divine lovers, Lileath and Kurnous.

To pledge his love for Ashniel, Alith commissioned the finest craftsmen
to weave for her a cloak of midnight-blue, studded with diamonds like
stars, the constellations drawn in fine traceries of silver thread.
Having read into the astronomical texts of the family, Alith had devised
the design himself, representing the skies above Ulthuan on the day of
Ashniel’s birth. This labour he did in secret, even from his family, for
he wanted to present Ashniel with this gift on the coming midsummer’s
night and would risk no warning of it reaching the ears of his loved
one.

As evening fell on the night of the festival, servants came out with
magical lanterns to hang upon the boughs of the trees in the gardens.
The golden dusk was augmented by the yellow glow of the lanterns, which
turned to pools of silver as the sun disappeared and the stars scattered
across the skies. Chatter filled the air as dozens of elves walked the
patios and paths of Elanardris’s exquisitely designed surrounds,
accompanied by the clinking of crystal goblets and the patter of
fountains.

Alith flitted through the scattered crowds of guests like a shadow, his
eyes seeking Ashniel. The cloak nestled under Alith’s arm, wrapped in
silken paper brought from the colonies to the west. The package was as
light as a feather, but felt like a leaden weight. Excitement and fear
vied inside Alith as he skirted around a plush lawn and headed back
towards the paved area where food was being served.

As two guests parted for a moment, Alith spied Ashniel’s pale face.
Bathed in the lamplight she was beautiful, her expression one of poise
and dignity, her grey eyes glittering. Weaving through the milling
elves, Alith made straight for Ashniel and was but a few steps from her
when a tall figure came up in front of him, forcing Alith to stop
sharply. Glancing up as he was about to step around the obstacle, Alith
saw the face of Caenthras, one eyebrow raised in suspicion.

‘Alith,’ said Prince Caenthras. ‘I have been looking for you.’

‘You have?’ replied Alith, taken aback and suddenly worried. ‘Whatever
for? I mean, how can I be of service?’

Caenthras smiled and laid a hand on Alith’s shoulder.

‘Do not look so petrified, Alith,’ said the lordly elf. ‘I do not bear
ill news, merely an invitation.’

‘Oh,’ said Alith, brightening up. ‘A hunt perhaps?’

Caenthras sighed and shook his head.

‘Not all of our lives revolve around the wilds, Alith. No, I have
visitors from Anlec at my house who I wish you to meet: priestesses who
will divine the future for yourself and Ashniel. I thought that if the
augurs go well, we might discuss the details of the union of our two
houses.’

Alith opened his mouth to reply but then realised he did not know what
to say. He clenched his jaw to stop himself saying something stupid and
simply nodded, trying to appear sagely. Caenthras frowned a little.

‘I thought you would be pleased.’

‘I am!’ said Alith, panicking. ‘Very pleased! That sounds wonderful.
Although… What if the priestesses say something bad?’

‘Do not worry, Alith. I am positive that the omens will be good.’

Caenthras glanced over his shoulder towards Ashniel and then at the
package under Alith’s arm. He nodded and pulled Alith closer, hugging
him to his chest as he steered the youth through the crowd of elves
surrounding Ashniel.

‘My daughter, light of the winter skies,’ said Caenthras. ‘Look what I
have found lurking nearby like a mouse in its hole! I believe it has
something to say to you.’

Caenthras shoved Alith forwards and he stumbled a few paces and stopped
in front of Ashniel. He looked up into those grey eyes and melted, the
poem he had rehearsed again and again in the library slipping from his
memory. Alith gulped, trying to recover his wits.

‘Hello, my love,’ said Ashniel, leaning forwards and kissing Alith on
the forehead. ‘I’ve been waiting for you all evening.’

Her perfumed scent, distilled from autumn wildflowers, filled Alith’s
nostrils and he was dizzy with the smell for a moment.

‘I have this for you,’ he blurted, stepping back and thrusting out the
package.

Ashniel took the gift, ran her hand over the soft paper and gave an
admiring look at the intricately knotted ribbon that bound it. With
Alith’s aid, she slipped the ribbon free and let the silk paper flutter
to the floor. Alith took the neck of the cloak and flung it open,
revealing its shining glory. There were appreciative gasps from the
other elves and a pleased smile played upon Ashniel’s lips.

Alith glanced around and saw that many more elves had gathered upon the
patio and several dozen were watching the unfolding spectacle, his
mother, father and grandfather amongst them. It occurred to him that
perhaps he had not been so devious in his secrecy as he had thought.

‘Here, let me,’ said Caenthras, stepping forwards and taking the cloak
from Alith. He swung the cape around Ashniel’s neck and deftly fixed the
crescent moon-shaped clasp upon her right shoulder. Seeing the gift upon
Ashniel, the words sprang back to Alith unbidden.

‘As the stars light the night, so you shine upon my life,’ he said,
clasping his hands in front of him, his eyes rising to the heavens. ‘As
the world turns under their gaze, my life unfolds under yours. Where
bright Lileath gazes down upon us with her beauty, her radiance is as
nothing compared to the light that shines from you.’

There were more gasps from a few of the assembled elves and whispered
comments, complaining that Alith should not compare the beauty of a
mortal to that of the Moon Goddess. Alith ignored them, knowing that
they were simply being prudish.

‘My heart burns as the sun and I would have your soul reflect its
light,’ concluded Alith.

Ashniel’s expression was one of refined amusement as she looked at the
other maidens in the crowd, pleased with their jealousy. She cupped
Alith’s cheeks in her hands and smiled.

‘Though Lileath spurned Kurnous, I shall not follow suit,’ she said.
‘The hunter has caught his prey with this most dazzling of traps and I
cannot escape.’

There was a cheer, soon joined by more, and Alith and Ashniel found
themselves at the centre of a jostling mass of elves eager to
congratulate them and examine the fine cloak. Alith let it all wash over
him, feeling a calm descend that he had not felt anywhere else except on
the mountain tops with an arrow notched upon his bow. Contented, he took
a glass of wine from a servant and raised it in toast to Caenthras, who
nodded appreciatively and then disappeared into the gathered elves.

The moons were barely above the mountains when Gerithon, the chancellor
of the Anars, hurried from the house to speak with Eoloran and Eothlir.
Alith excused himself from Ashniel and joined his father and
grandfather.

‘He insists that he speak with you,’ Gerithon was saying.

‘Then bring him through,’ said Eoloran. ‘Let us hear what he has to
say.’

‘Yes, let him speak his mind in front of us all,’ said Eothlir.

With a resigned sigh, Gerithon walked back into the manse. For a moment
Alith wondered if this visitor was perhaps the dark rider he had first
seen in the forest several years earlier. Ever since that encounter
Alith had spied the elf – or what he supposed to be an elf though he
could not know for sure – several times more, watching the young prince
from a mountain ridge or beneath the boughs of a wooded copse. Always
the rider had disappeared before Alith could approach, and left no
tracks for him to follow.

Alith had spoken of this strange watcher to nobody, fearing that it
would cause alarm without bringing answers. But the elf Gerithon
escorted from the manse was not the rider, or if he was then he wore a
different guise, for he was dressed in the manner of one of the pleasure
cultists.

The stranger was clad in swirling layers of purple robes, each
diaphanous, but overlaid upon his body in such a way that where they
overlapped they concealed his nudity and preserved a little dignity. His
right brow was pierced with a silver ring from which hung an oval ruby,
and a similar jewel hung from the left side of his nose. The hair that
hung to his shoulder was dark but bleached white towards the tips,
braided with beads of blue and red glass. Alith noticed that for all his
decadent appearance, the newcomer wore a sheathed sword at his belt – a
long, thin weapon with a crossguard fashioned into the likeness of two
hands cupping the blade.

‘My princes,’ the stranger said with a low bow. ‘Allow me to introduce
myself. I am Heliocoran Haeithar. I have ridden from Anlec to speak with
you.’

‘There is no message from Anlec that we wish to hear,’ said Eoloran.

Most of the party attendees and a few servants were gathering around the
stranger and hostility filled the air. Heliocoran seemed oblivious to
the situation and continued regardless.

‘Her majesty, Queen Morathi, wishes to invite the house of Anar to an
audience,’ said Heliocoran. He looked around at the guests. ‘And I
extend that invitation to any prince present here, upon my own
authority.’

‘Queen Morathi?’ spat Eothlir. ‘When last I heard, Nagarythe was ruled
by Prince Malekith. We have no queen.’

‘It is unfortunate that the whispers of Bel Shanaar have been allowed to
settle here and take root,’ said Heliocoran smoothly. Upon close
inspection, Alith saw that the envoy’s eyes were odd, his pupils
disturbingly small, while the green of his irises almost completely
obscured the white. This was accentuated by a thin trace of kohl that
brought the messenger’s eyes into stark contrast in an unsettling
fashion.

‘We shall determine for ourselves what is truth and what are lies,’ said
Eoloran. ‘Say your part and then leave.’

‘As you wish,’ said the herald with another exaggerated bow. ‘The realms
of the other princes are in concert against Nagarythe, and wish to make
Malekith their puppet. He fears to return to Ulthuan under the present
conditions. Dear comrades of our prince are held hostage against his
loyalty. That is the truth of it. The Naggarothi have been betrayed by
Bel Shanaar, he who usurped the Phoenix Throne from the heir of
Aenarion. For these past many years Bel Shanaar has grown more and more
vocal in his opposition to our traditions and customs, and Queen Morathi
wearies of his hypocrisy. She calls out to all princes, captains and
lieutenants still loyal to the true rule of Nagarythe, and bids them to
travel to Anlec so that she might hold counsel with the greatest of
these lands.’

His voice had become strident, but again dropped to a soft hush, and his
manner became one of pleading confidant rather than bombastic herald.

‘Innocent elves have been slain and imprisoned by the minions of Bel
Shanaar, the Usurper Phoenix; persecuted for pursuing their leisures and
beliefs, hounded for following the ancient rites of our people. If you
allow this conspiracy to proceed unchallenged, Nagarythe shall fall and
her power squabbled over by weaker bloodlines than stand here. If you
would see your lands taken and your children chained and your servants
and labourers whipped into misery, then stay here, stand idle and do
nothing. If you would see Morathi preserve the inheritance of Malekith
so that he might reclaim his rightful position as heir to Aenarion and
ruler of Ulthuan, then return with me to Anlec.’

‘Though I have no love for Morathi, I have none either for Bel Shanaar,’
said Caenthras, stepping to the front of the ring of elves surrounding
Heliocoran. ‘If the warriors of the Phoenix King come to my lands, will
Anlec send help?’

‘That is for us to discuss in the council,’ replied the messenger.

‘What assurances do we have that this is not some trick?’ asked Quelor,
one of the princes allied to the Anars. ‘Who says that bare cells and
iron chains do not await us in Anlec?’

‘Such division gives sport to the agents of our enemies,’ said
Heliocoran. ‘To set Naggarothi against Naggarothi, that is the aim of
our adversaries. Queen Morathi can give no assurances that the doubts
sown by the spies of our foes cannot undermine. Instead, she appeals to
your sense of duty and to the strength that flows within your veins. All
here are true sons and daughters of Nagarythe, and each knows it is
their right and their responsibility to uphold the honour of this realm.
Lest you wish to be ensorcelled by the cowardly wizards of Saphery and
see our dominions overseas taken by the merchants of Lothern and
Cothique, heed Queen Morathi’s warnings.’

‘You do your position justice,’ said Eoloran. ‘Never have I heard such
bile cloaked with such sweetness. You have said your piece, and now be
gone from my lands.’

‘You cannot stand aside in this battle, Eoloran,’ said the messenger,
and his tone was frank. ‘For years now the house of Anar has refused to
choose where its loyalties lie, and has gathered its friends close to
protect it against the harms of this conflict. Now it is time to make
your position plainly known. You may choose the correct path, and defend
your lands against invaders from the other kingdoms, and your reward
shall be in the sustaining of your line and the strengthening of your
position. Yet you must stand against the misguided will and might of Bel
Shanaar and his sycophants.

‘If you choose to side with the usurpers, then you may well endure for a
time, but dire shall be Queen Morathi’s wrath on those who betray
Nagarythe. You will be cast from power, scorned by those who once
respected you and you shall spend the rest of your days as landless
wanderers.’

‘And so the threat is made,’ said Eothlir. ‘You would have it that we
stand between a cliff and the ocean, and must dash ourselves against the
rocks or else drown.’

‘Then tell me, Eothlir, what does your heart say?’ said Heliocoran.
‘What have I said that you know to be untrue? Do you trust Bel Shanaar
so much that you would throw in your lot with him?’

Gerithon hurried from the manse once more, looking agitated.

‘There are armed soldiers outside, my prince,’ he said. ‘Three dozen, at
least, that I could see. Their leader is arguing at the gate.’

‘Why would a herald come armed for fighting?’ said Eothlir, pointing to
the sword at Heliocoran’s waist. ‘What is the meaning of these warriors
before our doors?’

‘These are not safe times,’ said the herald. ‘The agents of Bel Shanaar
prowl the wilds like packs of feral hounds. You of all should know that
we must protect ourselves. It would be most unfortunate if some foe were
to waylay your family.’

‘Get out!’ roared Eoloran. ‘Take your bribes and your threats and be
away!’

Heliocoran flinched from the outburst as if menaced by a blade, and
shrank back towards the house. With a snarl he turned and ran, pushing
his way through the elves and hurling aside a serving maid who fell amid
the splintered smash of crystal platters. No sooner had he disappeared
into the manse than Eothlir was storming after him.

‘With me!’ he cried. ‘He will open the doors and let in his soldiers!’

Alith did not chase directly into the house with the others, but instead
ran for the east wing to his chambers. The high window was open and he
leapt inside and flung open the chest at the foot of his bed where his
bow and arrows were kept. With a straining gasp he swiftly strung his
bow, and snatched up his quiver.

Wrenching open the door, Alith raced into the corridor and then along
the wood-panelled passageway to the dining hall at the front of the
manse. Shouts and the sounds of fighting echoed around the mansion.
Striding to the windows, Alith saw that a group of black-armoured
warriors had forced their way through the gate of the outer wall and
were gathered about the colonnaded portico and were fighting to get
inside, pushing at their companions to get through the door.

Opening the wide double doors that led to the entrance hall, Alith was
confronted by the sight of his father and grandfather fighting
back-to-back, wielding swords wrested from their foes. Meanthir and
Lestraen lay bleeding upon the floor, possibly dead, and three of the
envoy’s warriors were also slain.

Taking up his bow, Alith shot one of the attackers in the thigh, saving
his grandfather from a cut aimed towards his shoulder. In the space this
created, Eoloran leapt forwards and thrust his blade past the guard of
another warrior, cutting him across the arm. Other elves loyal to the
Anars came rushing in from the opposite wing of the house, carrying
swords and daggers taken from the walls of the great hall. Caenthras
arrived, wielding a long spear, and drove its point into the back of one
of the elves fighting Eothlir.

There came a deafening crash of glass from the eating hall and Alith
turned to see dark-garbed soldiers breaking through the high windows,
blades in hand. He shot the first to climb through, but two more jumped
in swiftly behind the slain elf. Alith loosed another arrow but with a
dull ring it merely caught a glancing blow on the golden helm of his
target. Even as Alith whipped another arrow from the quiver across his
back, the warrior turned and rushed towards him.

Jumping aside from the outthrust sword of his foe, Alith strung the
arrow and loosed it in one fluid motion, the arrowhead punching through
the elf’s breastplate. Wounded, but not killed, the warrior gave a
hoarse shout and swung his sword at Alith’s neck. Alith swayed backwards
but the point of the blade slashed across his tunic and a line of blood
welled up from his wounded chest. Biting back a cry of pain, Alith
whipped the tip of his bow into the face of his opponent, who fell back
with a hand to his eye.

Tharion appeared at the doorway with a two-handed sword and chopped the
elf’s legs from beneath him, before giving a cry of alarm. Turning,
Alith saw three more warriors advancing towards him, while a fourth made
for the fire blazing in the great hearth. He saw the warrior snatch up a
branch from the fireplace and take a step towards the tapestries hanging
on the wall opposite the windows.

Without a thought, Alith nocked an arrow and took aim between the
advancing elves. Breathing out slowly he loosed the arrow, which buried
itself in the neck of the elf with the brand. The flaming branch fell
from his dead grasp and thudded harmlessly on the stone floor.

The heir of Anar had barely time to loose another shot, which pierced
the shoulder of his target, before Caenthras and Tharion were leaping
forwards with their weapons, roaring ancient battle cries. Alith was
struck by the ferocity of the two ageing princes; veterans of Aenarion’s
army and skilled warriors both.

Caenthras’s spear took one of the dark-clad elves in the throat, who
jerked like a puppet without strings before collapsing in a heap.
Tharion parried a blow aimed towards his legs and spun his wrists to
bring his heavy blade down across his foe’s sword arm, severing it at
the elbow. A backhanded strike hurled the elf back with his breastplate
rent open, his lifeblood gushing over his black robes.

The clatter of hooves on cobbles attracted Alith’s attention and he
dashed to the windows. He saw Heliocoran wrestling with a tawny steed,
trying to swing himself up into the saddle. As Alith climbed through the
window, careful to avoid the slivers of shattered glass still protruding
from the frame, Heliocoran mastered his mount. With much whipping of the
reins, he turned his horse across the courtyard towards the main gates.

As the herald raced away, Alith’s aim was obscured by the line of fir
trees on either side of the roadway leading from the gate, and he leapt
for the porch. Gripping the scrolled top of a column with one hand, he
swung himself up onto the portico. From here, he could see the length of
the courtyard to the gateway.

A soldier in the colours of House Anar stumbled from the gatehouse ahead
of the messenger, blood dripping from a wounded leg. Heliocoran stooped
low in the saddle and swept his sword across the warrior’s chest as he
sped past, felling him with a single blow.

Alith knelt on the roof of the portico and took aim. The clashing of
swords and cries of battle below him drifted out of his thoughts as he
focussed his mind and body on the dwindling figure of Heliocoran.

He imagined himself in the woods, stalking a boar or deer. He adjusted
his line of shot for the wind sighing against the left side of his face,
and raised his bow a touch so that his shot would not fall short of his
rapidly fleeing prey.

Lit only by flickering lanterns, the herald was all but swathed in
darkness and he was a moment from escape, but Alith could see his
position clearly in his mind’s eye.

With a whispered prayer to Kurnous, Alith loosed the arrow. The
black-fletched missile streaked into the darkness, its point glimmering
with firelight from the torches upon the walls of the courtyard. He
heard a cry as it struck home. Heliocoran slumped upon his steed but did
not fall, and then passed out of sight through the gatehouse.

Three of the fleeing messenger’s warriors staggered out from the
entrance hall onto the roadway beneath Alith, and he loosed three arrows
in quick succession, taking them down with a single shot each. Eoloran,
Eothlir, Caenthras and others ran out, stopping when they saw there were
no more foes. Eoloran looked over his shoulder at his grandson.

‘Did any of them escape?’ Eoloran demanded.

‘I hit Heliocoran, but I do not know if the wound is mortal,’ Alith
confessed.

Eoloran cursed, and signalled for Alith to climb down from his vantage
point.

‘That is the last of them,’ said Eothlir. ‘More will come. How soon, we
cannot know. It seems that House Anar has chosen a side.’

Though his father’s face was grim, this pronouncement brought pride to
Alith’s heart. Since he had been born, House Anar had been content to
play no greater part in the affairs of Nagarythe. All of that had
changed. Morathi had as much as declared war on House Anar, and Alith
was pleased that his idleness would soon come to an end. He was
Naggarothi, after all, and battle was in his heart and glory called in
his blood.

Now was the chance for him to prove his worth and earn the renown that
surrounded his family; a renown he had felt had not yet been his to
rightfully share.

He hid a smile as he lowered himself down to the tiled ground below.
