
twenty 

The Taming of the Wolf

Alith was breathless as he ran through the woods. Glancing over his
shoulder, he could see the knights chasing him, ducking beneath branches
as they steered their heavy mounts between the trees. More than a dozen
of them had given chase when Alith had shot their captain as they
patrolled southwards from their camp. The thud of the horses’ hooves
reverberated from the steep sides of the wooded dell as Alith led them
towards the pack.

Alith put in a fresh spurt of speed and cut to his left, disappearing
from the knights’ view. He leapt onto a rock and from there jumped into
the branches of a tree with the swiftness of a squirrel. He ran lightly
along the branch and crouched next to the trunk, peering between the
leaves at the approaching riders.

The foremost rider signalled for the pursuers to slow as he passed
Alith’s hiding spot. Alith felt a tremor of fear as the small column
came to a walk and paced by below him, their eyes scanning the trees for
any sign of their prey.

‘Halt!’ called the lead knight, holding up his hand. ‘It has stopped
running.’

Alith caught his breath and his heart began to race. He glanced at the
ground beneath the horses but knew he had left no tracks as he had run.
He also knew that he could not be seen easily. His pale skin was
obscured by mud and blood he had painted across himself, and immobile he
was all but indistinguishable from the bark of the tree.

Slowly shifting position, Alith turned his attention to the knights’
leader, wondering what sense it was that had alerted the rider. He was
armoured as the others in heavy silver plate, his dark grey steed
protected by a caparison of light mail and a black enamelled chamfron
gilded with the rune of Anlec. A high war helm protected the rider’s
head, decorated with a plume of long black feathers that swayed as the
knight looked to his left and right. There was something else on the
knight’s helmet, a band of gold that held in place a mask that Alith
could not see until the rider turned fully around and stared directly at
him. Alith gasped at what he saw.

The golden mask depicted a thin, snarling face sculpted with angular
cheeks and diamond eyeholes. It was not the fierce expression of the war
mask that so alarmed Alith, but what was set into it. A pair of blue
eyes were bound to the mask above the eyeholes, a net of fine golden
thread passing through the glistening orbs and the metal of the helm;
real eyes that moved with a life of their own. A fine trickle of blood
ran down the sides of the mask from these as they tracked back and
forth, seeking something. They swivelled in unison towards Alith and the
rider straightened as if startled.

For a moment Alith was locked in the unearthly stare of those magical
eyes. He was transfixed with horror, not only of his discovery but by
the means with which he had been found.

‘There, in the tree!’ the rider cried out, pulling free his sword and
pointing towards Alith.

The knights’ exclamations broke Alith’s trance and he pulled himself
higher into the branches with one hand, unslinging the moonbow from his
back with the other. He felt the gift of Lileath pulse in his hand,
mirroring his heartbeat. Angry shouts rose towards him as he lifted an
arrow to the impossibly thin string. He pulled back on the shaft, with
no more resistance than he would have from passing his hand through the
air. Sighting on the knight with the abomination of a mask, Alith could
hear the bow whispering to him, offering soothing encouragement. He
could not discern the words, and doubted he would understand their
language even if he could clearly hear them. Their tone was reassuring,
relaxing him, quelling the trembling in his hands.

Alith loosed the arrow and it sprang from the moonbow as a flash of
white, cutting straight through the breastplate of the knight and out of
his back to bury itself up to the fletching in the leaf-strewn ground. A
gaping hole in his body, the knight toppled sideways and crashed
lifelessly into the dirt. As he had done since finding the moonbow,
Alith marvelled at its power; it was strong enough to send a shaft
through a tree bole yet so light that he could balance it on a
fingertip.

Alith shot another of the knights, the angle of the arrow passing down
through the rider’s shoulder and splitting the spine of his steed. Both
collapsed in a heap. With no means to shoot back, the knights turned and
fled, one more of their number falling with an arrow through his back as
they galloped back up the dell.

With moonbow still in hand, Alith dropped back to the ground. He felt a
wave of revulsion wash through him as he stepped towards the knight with
the grotesque helmet. Turning him over with his foot, Alith stared at
the horrid contraption of gold and flesh wound into the helm. He knelt
down for a closer inspection and saw that the wires holding the eyes in
place passed through the helmet and into the face of the wearer. Though
the knight was dead, the eyes continued to follow Alith, staring at him
wherever he moved.

Forcing himself to look at those eyes, he regarded them with distaste,
but also a feeling of recognition. There was something about their
lidless stare that seemed familiar. Then it came to him: these were the
eyes of the sentry he had interrogated. A sorcerer in the druchii camp
had laid an enchantment upon them to seek out Alith, and gifted them
with the ability to see him wherever he hid.

Disgusted, Alith drew his sword and sliced through the golden bindings,
spilling the eyes to the ground. They swivelled amongst the leaves,
still staring accusingly at Alith. With a lurch in his stomach, Alith
brought his sword down onto them and hacked them into viscous pieces. As
he straightened, Alith wondered if the unfortunate sentry had survived
the donation of his eyes. It would be like the druchii to blind him for
his error, rather than grant him the ignominy of death.

Stowing the moonbow and his sword, Alith retrieved his precious arrows
and turned down the dell to head back to where the pack was waiting in
ambush. He would have to tell them there would be no hunt today.

For a dozen days after finding the moonbow, Alith and the wolves
assailed the druchii, but the opportunities to strike back at his hated
foes were few. The enemy advanced relentlessly, driving the pack before
them. The wolves tried to head north and circle back to the west but
after a day they ran into another druchii host; this one coming directly
south and heading for the Ellyrion border. Eastwards the black regiments
marched, unwittingly herding Alith and the wolves before them as they
pressed on towards the Aein Ishain, shrine to the goddess Isha and home
to the court of the Everqueen.

Save for the phases of the moon, Alith had not counted the passing of
the days, but he started to worry about time once more. How far was it
to the Everqueen, and how fast were the druchii moving? Was the
spiritual ruler of Avelorn aware of the danger that pressed so hastily
into the forests?

This last question Alith dismissed as soon as it came to him. These were
the lands of the Everqueen and she was bound to them in ways far beyond
a prince’s connection to his lands. The death of the beasts and the
burning of the trees would be known to her, as Alith felt the cuts on
his bare feet and the grazes on his skin. No, the Everqueen would not
need warning of the threat that loomed over Avelorn.

Unable to hinder the druchii advance, Alith was at a loss regarding what
course of action to take. Having seen the strength of his enemy,
Blackmane wished to flee eastwards even further, down through the
isthmus of Avelorn and into the Gaen Vale. Here the old wolf believed
his pack would be safe from the druchii, though he would not tell Alith
why he felt such surety.

In the following days Alith noticed a change in the forests. The nature
of the trees altered, becoming even larger and older than those of the
outer woods. Bramble and bracken barred their way and often Alith was
forced to crawl after the wolves through natural culverts and along
tunnels of sharp briar. Walls of thorns turned them northwards or
southwards, and Alith was convinced the forest itself was trying to keep
them from moving eastwards.

Sixteen days after drawing the moonbow, Blackmane’s pack came to the
borders of the Gaen Vale. No elves save for Malekith’s half-brother and
half-sister – and the Everqueen herself – had ever travelled to the Gaen
Vale, but the legends surrounding it were many. Some claimed it was the
spiritual heart of Avelorn, of all of Ulthuan, where Isha had cried out
her last tears before she left the world for the heavens. Other tales
told that the Gaen Vale was the birthplace of the first Everqueen, the
mortal incarnation of the goddess.

That strange spirits lived in the Gaen Vale was beyond dispute. The
forest had a consciousness of its own in those dark depths. The trees
could walk and talk, infused with the life of Isha. Legend claimed that
these spirits protected Morelion and Yvraine, the first children of
Aenarion, from the attacks of the daemons. The Everqueen sought counsel
from the forest’s immortal guardians and Alith believed that they would
be no friends of the druchii.

Alith cared not for the legends of Isha, but he could recognise
sanctuary. Separated from the mainland of Ulthuan by the narrowest strip
of land, the Gaen Vale could be easily defended against the druchii. So
he followed Blackmane as the pack forced their way towards safety, the
druchii ever close on their heels.

As night fell on Alith’s thirtieth day in Avelorn, they came to the
northern end of the isthmus. The skies were swathed with thick cloud,
the forest bathed intermittently by the white light of waxing Sariour
and the sickly green of the Chaos moon. A mood of unease spread amongst
the pack, a feeling of foreboding that Alith shared. The air tasted
strange and Alith wondered if the druchii conjured a foul sorcery to
stain Avelorn with their dark magic. The wolves gathered close together,
the pack rubbing against each other for reassurance, their mewls and
whimpers sounding in the darkness. Blackmane strode confidently through
his charges, his bark bringing comfort to the scared pack.

Alith was filled with the sensation of being watched, but though he
scanned the trees for any sign of an interloper, he saw nothing. Then he
became aware of movement and the whimpering of the wolves increased.
Alith sensed it now. The breeze brought with it a different scent, that
of autumnal rot and mouldering leaves. Shadows shifted at the edge of
Alith’s vision, but when he turned to look he saw nothing but bushes and
trees. Eerie creaks and the swish of leaves filled the air. Things
whispered in the undergrowth, a susurrus that came from every direction
and none. Though he could see nothing, Alith was in no doubt that the
forest was moving.

The trees were getting closer.

The pack gathered around Blackmane, Alith at his side. A
near-impenetrable wall of trees surrounded the elf and wolves, branches
reaching high overhead to blot out what little light crept through the
clouds. A thicket of brambles had grown up around the trees, creating a
thorny fence.

Alith drew the moonbow and nocked an arrow, glancing nervously all
around. Even Blackmane’s fierce confidence had disappeared and the pack
leader hunched at Alith’s side, ears flat against his head, eyes wide
with fright.

Something shifted to Alith’s right and he turned, bow raised.

‘Not welcome,’ said a voice on the wind, reminding Alith of the rustle
of leaves in the wind. One tree stood a little further forwards from the
others, a huge bowed oak heavy with leaf. It shuddered and acorns fell
to the ground in a loud patter. ‘Leave us.’

‘Black two-legs come,’ said Blackmane, standing up and taking a pace
towards the arboreal apparition. ‘Kill. Burn. We run.’

The tree might have twisted slightly towards Blackmane, though it could
well have been a trick of the moonlight.

‘Wolves may come,’ the voice said. ‘Two-legs must not.’

‘Why would you deny your ally sanctuary?’ demanded Alith, speaking in
elvish. ‘I would fight to protect these lands from the druchii.’

‘Come here,’ the treeman said, bending a branch in Alith’s direction
like a beckoning arm.

The elf approached cautiously, moonbow still in hand. He stopped a few
paces from the treeman and saw a gnarled face in the bark, far above his
head. Knots made for eyes and a split in the bark formed a mockery of a
mouth, though neither moved as the treeman spoke.

‘What manner of elf runs wild with the wolves?’ the treeman asked.

‘I am Alith, last of the Anars,’ the elf replied, stiffening with pride
as he spoke. The treeman said nothing and Alith continued. ‘I am the son
of the wolf and the moon.’

At this the trees around the trees began quivering violently, branches
clashing, leaves fluttering. Alith did not know if this signalled anger
or amusement, but he kept calm.

‘I request passage to the Gaen Vale, to seek sanctuary from those that
would hunt me down and slay me,’ Alith said, taking the arrow from the
string of the moonbow and placing both in his quiver. ‘Or worse,’ he
added.

A branch reached out and laid leafy fingers upon Alith’s brow, their
touch as light as a feather. A moment after it had settled, the branch
whipped away with a crack.

‘No,’ said the treeman, its voice deepening to a rumble. ‘There is no
place for you in Gaen Vale. You bring darkness with you. Death is in
you. Only life is welcome in this place. You must go.’

‘The darkness follows me, but it is not of my making,’ said Alith,
thinking of the pursuing druchii. ‘I will help you fight!’

‘The darkness is drawn to you, and you are drawn to it,’ the treeman
said, slowly straightening. ‘You cannot pass into the Gaen Vale.’

Alith was aware of the eyes of the wolves upon him, Blackmane’s stare
the most intent. The wolves could not follow the words, but Alith’s
narrowed eyes and tense posture told them what they needed to know about
the exchange.

‘We go?’ asked Blackmane. ‘Hide?’

‘Yes,’ said Alith. ‘You go. You hide.’

‘Two-legs come,’ said Blackmane.

‘No,’ said Alith, turning away from the treeman to focus on the wolves.
‘Two-legs not come. Two-legs will hunt. Wolves will hide.’

‘No!’ snarled Scar, trotting from the pack. ‘Two-legs hunt, wolves
hunt.’

‘Wolves hunt,’ echoed Blackmane.

‘Cubs not safe,’ said Alith. ‘Cubs not hunt. Black two-legs come soon.
Wolves hide.’

‘Cubs hide, wolves hunt,’ said Blackmane. ‘Pack hunts with two-legs.’

Alith wanted to argue, but there were no words to express what he knew.
The druchii would come this way, in ever-increasing numbers. The wolves
had to flee, to head to safety in the Gaen Vale. Yet there was no way he
could convince them of their peril. Alith would have to leave them.

‘Two-legs not run,’ said Silver, joining Scar. It was as if the wily
female had read Alith’s mind. ‘Two-legs stay with pack. Pack protects.’

‘Black two-legs kill pack!’ snapped Alith, causing Silver to shrink back
as if he had taken a swipe at her. Alith felt a pang of guilt, but
continued, knowing that he had to make the wolves understand the danger.
‘Many, many black two-legs. Kill many, many wolves. Wolves run!’

Alith turned his back on the pack to a chorus of yelps and howls. He
ignored them and strode westwards, away from the Gaen Vale. He’d taken
only a few paces when he heard the padding of feet. Glancing over his
shoulder he saw Scar, Silver, Blackmane and nearly two dozen other
wolves following him.

‘No!’ Alith yelled, stooping to snatch up a handful of dirt. He flung it
at the wolves with a wordless shout. Turning away, Alith stormed through
a gap that had opened in the thorny barricade.

‘Don’t let them follow me!’ Alith called out in elvish, his voice
catching in his throat.

‘We will protect them,’ the treeman’s haunting voice called back. The
thorns writhed and within moments the gap was sealed once more.

Howls and snarls echoed through the trees, following Alith as he stalked
into the darkness with tears in his eyes.

Alith wept for the rest of the night, sitting on the root of an enormous
tree. He wondered why the gods could be so cruel. They tempted him with
love and peace and then took away that which he desired most: Ashniel;
Milandith; his family; Athielle; the wolf pack. In his grief he was
reminded of Elthyrior. Loneliness is an indulgence for those with the
time to spare for it. Some fill the emptiness with the meaningless
chatter of those around them. Some of us fill it with a greater purpose,
more comforting than any mortal company.

Alith had entered Avelorn thinking he had found a purpose, but it had
not been so. Had he been wrong to slay the stag? He thought not. Had
Kurnous intended him to run with the pack? It seemed likely. If so, then
what had it brought Alith save for more woe?

Alith heard a gentle whisper and without thought reached to the quiver
on his back and brought forth the moonbow. He stroked a finger along the
silvery metal, relishing the warmth. He held it to his cheek, his tears
running along its length, soothed by its touch.

Here was the reason he had been brought to Avelorn.

Cradling the moonbow to his chest, Alith stood and took a deep breath.
It was up to him to find his own purpose. Others could blame fate, or
the gods, or luck. Alith was empty of blame, save for his hatred of
those that had brought this woe upon Ulthuan. His fate had not been made
by Kurnous, nor his father and grandfather, not even by Bel Shanaar. All
that had happened to Alith had one source and one source alone: the
druchii.

He had been a leaf on a river, pulled by currents beyond his control.
Forced to fight. Forced to run. Forced to hide. That would change. The
stag would run and be hunted down. The wolf chose its prey. Now was the
time to act, not react. For too long the druchii had been allowed to
choose the tune. That feral love of the hunt that Kurnous had awoken
stirred in Alith’s breast.

He looked to the north, where the druchii made their camps and despoiled
the forest. With the moonbow Alith could slay many of them. They would
come for him and he would elude them, just as the Shadows had done. But
it was not enough. Even with the moonbow, he could not slay enough
druchii to halt them, to turn the war against them. The lone wolf was no
threat to them.

Moonbow in hand, Alith turned to the south-west, towards Ellyrion. He
could not hunt alone, but he knew where he would find his pack.
