
THREE 

The Prince Returns

Nearly a year had passed since the attack on the manse; many days filled
with frenetic activity and tension. Eoloran and Eothlir were afraid that
the warriors of Anlec would come upon them at any time, falling upon
Elanardris before its defences were made ready. Riders made haste to all
corners of the Anars’ realm, to lesser princes and commanders, to muster
their soldiers at the ancestral home and ready for battle. Other
princes, from House Atriath and House Ceneborn, both long allies of the
Anars, chose Elanardris to make clear their defiance of Anlec.

For all the fears of House Anar, the threats of Heliocoran did not
­materialise into action. All of the summer, autumn and spring, troops
loyal to Eoloran came and camped upon the hills that surrounded the
mansion, nearly ten thousand in all. The standard of House Anar
fluttered atop the manse, white with a golden griffon’s wing upon it,
and from the banners of the regiments assembling at the call of their
lord.

Yet Alith was disappointed. Fully half of their troops had not responded
to the call to arms. Many had turned back the messengers and bid them
return to Eoloran to convey their refusal to act against Anlec. This
grieved Eothlir too, for Alith could see the strain written upon the
face of his father when these messages were passed on.

Alith guessed, as did Eothlir and others, that these dissenters had
succumbed to the bribes and threats of Morathi. None could say if their
part was simply to step aside from their duties, or if there was some
darker plot to be uncovered. Would Eoloran’s own turn against him? Would
they raise arms against their former master? It was this uncertainty
that taxed the counsels of the Anars as they made ready. From where was
the greatest threat – the legions of Anlec or traitors close at hand?

The great hall of Elanardris was full of elven princes and lords, all
trying to speak at once. Alith sat in the corner close to the empty fire
grate and let the babbling pass him by. He heard his grandfather’s voice
raised, calling for quiet.

‘I did not ask you all to come here for us to fight with one another,’
Eoloran declared. He was sat at a table set across the hall, flanked by
Eothlir and Caenthras, a few of the other Naggarothi princes stood
behind him. ‘Already there is enough division in Nagarythe, we need not
add to it.’

‘We demand that action is taken,’ called out one elf, a lesser noble of
southern Nagarythe called Yrtrian. ‘Morathi has taken our lands and
forced us from our homes.’

‘And who is this “we” that can make such demands?’ Caenthras answered
sternly. ‘Those who did not resist the cults that grew up under their
noses? Those who stood idly by while Morathi’s agents eroded their claim
to lordship? Where were these calls for justice a year ago when Morathi
declared the Anars traitors to Anlec?’

‘We have not the means to defend ourselves,’ said Khalion, whose domain
bordered Elanardris to the west. ‘We place our trust in the greater
houses, which we have supported with taxes and warriors for many
centuries. Now has come the time for that support to be returned.’

‘Warriors and armies?’ laughed Eoloran, silencing all. ‘You would have
me march to Anlec and throw down the rule of Morathi?’

There were a few calls for just such a thing to happen and Eoloran held
up his hand to quieten them.

‘There is no means by which our armies can match those of Anlec,’ said
the lord of House Anar. ‘Not against a land filled with hostile cultists
and those enthralled to Morathi’s power. I have offered sanctuary to you
all, and that offer comes with no price. Yet it also comes with no
guarantees. For a year Morathi has been content to stay her hand,
burdening our greater houses with the turmoil of lesser families,
knowing that as she grows stronger, our ability to act grows weaker.’

Eothlir stood and scowled at the assembled nobles.

‘If Morathi moves more directly against us, we will fight,’ he
announced. ‘Despite that, we cannot, we will not, start a war with
Anlec. The lands in the mountains are still safe haven for any that
would escape the tyrannies of Morathi, and here we shall stand resolute.
It is not for the Anars to cast away the hopes of the future through
rash action. We have faith in Malekith and await his return. Under his
rule, your titles and rights will be restored and you will be glad of
the protection you received.’

‘And when will that be?’ demanded Yrtrian. ‘Has any here heard word of
Prince Malekith these past years? He cares not for our woes, if he even
knows of them.’

This started a fresh round of shouting and recrimination, and Alith
stood up with a sigh and eased his way out of the hall. Such had been
the bickering for four seasons, since the confrontation with Heliocoran.
The Anars had waited for the first blow to land, but it had not come.
For a year they had patrolled their borders and taken in those fleeing
the plight that had engulfed the rest of Nagarythe, and it seemed that
the self-appointed Queen of Anlec was content to allow her enemies to
hide in the mountains. Alith chafed at the inactivity but could see that
there was little the Anars could do to mount an offensive against
Morathi’s stranglehold on power.

As he had often done during such bickering conclaves, Alith left the
nobles to their arguments and went to his chambers to take up his bow
and arrows. Seeking solitude, he quit the manse and headed up into the
mountains. Alith did not know for what he searched, and trod the old
game trails guided by whim, heading ever eastwards, deeper into the
mountains.

His greatest lament was that he had seen little of Ashniel in the past
year. Caenthras had been wary of allowing her to leave the confines of
his mansion and Alith had been spared little opportunity to visit her as
he played his part as heir of the Anars. In his bedchambers he had a
chest filled with letters she had sent, but their polite affection gave
him little comfort.

Conflicted between depression and anger, Alith sat himself down upon a
rock close to a babbling stream and dropped his bow upon the ground. He
looked up into the summer sky, where white clouds scudded across the
sun. In just one year everything had changed, and yet nothing had, and
he could see no way by which the current stalemate would be broken – not
in any way that would be good for the Anars.

A flicker of white caught his eye and Alith snatched up his bow and
stood. Amidst the tumbled rocks and bushes a little further down the
brook he spied an antlered head dipping to the waters. It was the white
stag he had seen outside the shrine of Kurnous.

Padding softly along the bank of the brook, Alith sneaked from boulder
to bush to boulder, closing in on the magnificent beast. It stood at the
water’s edge, head held high. It looked towards him and Alith shrank
back into the shadow of an overhanging outcrop. The stag seemed
unperturbed and lazily walked down the mountain back towards the forest.

Alith followed at a distance, careful not to approach too closely lest
he startle the beast, but always keeping it in view. Their path took
them under the eaves of the pine trees, ever eastwards into lands that
Alith had not yet explored. As he stalked the stag Alith realised there
were few landmarks to guide his passage and feared for a moment that he
would get lost in the endless trees. The fear soon disappeared when he
came upon a clearing, not large but big enough for the sun to break
through overhead. Whatever happened, Alith would be able to make his way
westwards towards Elanardris.

The stag stood in the sunlight, basking in its warmth. The elf moved
closer and saw that the black mark upon the beast’s chest was no random
pattern but a crude representation of Kurnous’s rune. Clearly the stag
was some omen or guide sent by the god of hunters.

As before, the white stag suddenly started and bounded away northwards.
Alith rose up and gave chase but was barely into the clearing before the
deer disappeared from view amongst the lengthening evening shadows.

Stopping, Alith glanced around the clearing and his eye settled upon a
shadow just under the eaves to the west. Without thought Alith fitted an
arrow to his bow and loosed the shaft at the apparition. The shadow
swayed for a moment, seeping into the darkness, and the arrow sped into
the woods beyond. The shadow reappeared, more clearly a figure. In a
heartbeat Alith nocked and loosed another arrow, but with similar
failure to hit his mark. The silhouette had simply merged with its
surrounds as the missile had passed.

‘Wait!’ the figure called out in elvish, its voice deep, tinged with the
accent of northern Nagarythe. ‘I would not have you waste more of your
fine shafts.’

Alith bent another arrow to his bow nonetheless and watched warily as
the tenebrous apparition emerged into the sunlight. He was dressed all
in black with a cloak and hood of feathers concealing his body and face.
The stranger showed his open palms and then reached up to pull back his
hood.

The elf had skin as white as snow and emerald eyes that shone in the
sun, his face framed by long black hair free of any tie or circlet. His
expression was solemn as he glided slowly forwards, his hands held up in
a sign of peace. Alith’s quick eyes noted the empty scabbard at the
elf’s belt but he did not relax the tension on his bowstring.

‘Alith, son of Eothlir, heir of the Anars,’ the stranger said, his voice
low and quiet. ‘My name is Elthyrior and I bear important tidings.’

‘And why would I listen to an elf that skulks in the shadows and stalks
me as if I were his prey?’ demanded Alith.

‘I can only offer my apologies and hope for your forgiveness,’ said
Elthyrior, lowering his arms to his sides. ‘I have not spied upon you
out of spite, but only to observe and keep you safe.’

‘Keep me safe from what? Who are you?’

‘I have told you, I am Elthyrior. I am one of the raven heralds, and I
was guided to watch you by my mistress.’

‘Mistress? If you are an assassin of Morathi, strike now and let us
settle this.’

‘It is Morai-heg that claims my loyalty, not the Witch Queen who sits
upon an usurped throne in Anlec,’ said Elthyrior. ‘The crow goddess came
to me in a dream one night many years ago, before you were even born. In
the mountains she sent me to find you, the child of the moon and the
wolf, the heir of Kurnous. The one that would be king in the shadows and
hold the future of Nagarythe in balance.’

Alith pondered these words, but they meant little to him. In myth, there
was no child of the moon and the wolf, for Lileath and Kurnous had
parted without son or daughter. He knew of no other king than Bel
Shanaar.

‘I do not understand why you think I am the one you seek. What message
does the crone goddess have for me? What fate has she seen for my line?’

Elthyrior did not speak for a moment and ghosted softly towards Alith
until he was stood but two paces from the tip of the youth’s arrow.

‘My message comes not from the Queen of Ravens, but from Prince
Malekith.’

Clouds had gathered at the peak of the mountain, obscuring the sun and
chilling the wind. Alith fixed his eyes upon Elthyrior to discern any
malign intent. The raven herald returned his stare without hostility,
awaiting Alith’s response. The two stood as such for some time, Alith
warily eyeing Elthyrior.

‘You have spoken with Prince Malekith?’

‘Last night, on the northern border of Tiranoc at the Naganath River,’
said Elthyrior.

‘Surely we would have heard ere now that the prince had returned,’ said
Alith with a frown.

‘In secrecy has he come back, or so he thinks,’ said Elthyrior. ‘Even
now he marches north to reclaim Anlec.’

‘Then the Anars and their allies will march with him!’

‘No,’ said Elthyrior with a sorrowful shake of the head. ‘Morai-heg has
shown me something of what will come to pass. Malekith will not reach
Anlec. He is not yet ready to reclaim his lands from the rule of his
mother.’

‘Perhaps, with our help…’ started Alith.

‘No. The time is not yet right. All of those in Nagarythe that would see
Malekith restored to the throne rest at Elanardris, but the hope that
they hold will be dashed if they march now.’

‘I cannot make this decision, why come to me?’

Elthyrior looked to leave but then stopped and turned back to Alith, his
stare intent.

‘I go where I am bid, though I know not all of the reasons,’ the raven
herald said softly. ‘You have a part to play in these events, but what
they are I cannot say. Perhaps fate itself does not yet know your role,
or it will be for you to decide. I cannot ask you to simply trust me,
for you do not know me at all. All I can give is the warning I bring: do
not march with Malekith. But you cannot say these words came from me.’

‘You give me this knowledge and then expect me to keep it hidden? My
father and grandfather, they should hear this.’

‘Your grandfather has little love for my kind, and none for me,’ said
Elthyrior. ‘Words from my lips would be as poison to his ears, for he
still blames me for the death of your grandmother.’

‘My grandmother?’

‘It is not important,’ insisted Elthyrior. ‘Know only that I am not
welcome at Elanardris, and nor will be my words. The Anars must not
march yet. Your time will come.’

Elthyrior saw the conflict in Alith and leant forwards with earnest
intent.

‘Can you swear that all who live under the banner of the Anars can be
trusted?’ asked the raven herald.

Alith thought about this, and though it pained him to realise, he could
not in all honesty say that there were no agents of Anlec at Elanardris.
There were simply too many elven nobles – and their households – for him
to be sure of anything. Elthyrior recognised the consternation in
Alith’s face.

‘If not for the reasons I have given, than for the secrecy desired by
Malekith I ask you not to speak. This news will come to your family soon
enough, but let it be from the lips of others. If the prince desires to
come unheralded, it is for us to acquiesce to that wish. Every warning
that our foes have may turn things against us. I tell you this only so
that you might guide your family to the correct decision.’

Alith shook his head, casting his gaze to his feet for a moment while he
collected his thoughts.

‘When will…’ he began, but when he looked up, Elthyrior had gone. There
was no sign of the raven herald, only the shadows beneath the trees and
a single crow swooping over the tips of the pines.
