
THIRTEEN 

An Age Ends

‘A hundred?’ snarled Caledor. The herald from Yvresse flinched as the
Phoenix King thrust himself from his chair and stalked towards the
messenger. ‘A hundred spears are all that Prince Carvalon can spare?’

‘We are a peaceful people,’ the herald replied with an apologetic bow.
‘Few enough volunteer for the militia and of those, most are required to
garrison our towns against the attacks of the cultists.’

Caledor turned on the others in the Shrine of Asuryan, his adopted
throne room. Thyriol was with him, as were Finudel and Athielle, Dorien,
Thyrinor, Koradrel, Tithrain of Cothique, the high priest Mianderin, and
his chief herald Carathril. Representatives of Eataine and Yvresse
huddled together, apart from the princes, watching the Phoenix King
warily.

‘How can I fight a war with no army?’ Caledor said. ‘For six years we
have marched and battled, and the druchii have been held. Now is the
time to strike back.’

‘Our losses have been heavy too,’ said Thyriol. ‘Each Naggarothi has
trained for two hundred years for this war, and many have been fighting
for much longer. You cannot expect our fresh recruits to face such foes
with equality. Were it not for your dragons, Ulthuan would have been
overrun by now. A counter-offensive is out of the question.’

‘So we must simply wait for the next druchii attack?’ said Dorien. ‘We
let them gather their strength again while their cultist lackeys have us
chase from kingdom to kingdom? We should march to Anlec and finish
this.’

Tithrain laughed nervously and all eyes turned towards the young ruler
of Cothique.

‘Anlec is unassailable,’ said the prince. ‘We have all heard the tales
of its defences. A river of fire girds its high walls, and twenty towers
overlook the approaches. Even if we were to cross Nagarythe intact, we
could not take such a fortress.’

‘We have a dozen dragons,’ said Dorien. ‘No river of fire would stop
them.’

‘Eleven,’ said Koradrel, his voice hushed. ‘Prince Aelvian and
Kardraghnir were slain in Chrace during battle against the Naggarothi.
My captains brought me the news last night. Bolt throwers, dozens of
them, brought them down from the sky.’

This news was greeted with groans from some and a stony stare from
Caledor. Koradrel shrugged.

‘It matters not,’ said the Chracian. ‘To what end would the capture of
Anlec serve? Malekith retook his capital and it did him no good. The
world has changed. The Naggarothi will never agree to peace.’

‘What are you saying?’ said Thyriol.

‘Extermination,’ said Caledor.

The mage fixed the Phoenix King with a narrowed glare.

‘And what of the cultists?’ said Thyriol. ‘Do we kill every last one of
them also?’

‘If we have to,’ said Caledor, matching the mage’s gaze. He took no
pleasure in the pronouncement, but if Ulthuan was to know peace again,
every threat had to be eliminated. ‘We are a divided people. Prosperity
and opportunity have masked those divisions, but now they have been made
clear. The druchii must be slain or driven out of Ulthuan, and any that
choose to follow them.’

‘As you said, you have no army,’ said Finudel. ‘You think that you could
attack Nagarythe?’

‘No,’ said Caledor. ‘We have only been able to survive because the enemy
have split their strength. They occupy Tiranoc, and have attacked
Eataine, Ellyrion, Chrace and Avelorn at the same time, seeking swift
victory. If we force them to gather in one place, and muster our own
strength against them, we risk losing the war at a stroke.’

‘Until we have an army that can match the druchii, we cannot test
ourselves on an equal basis,’ said Thyrinor. ‘Our greatest hope is to
draw them out and defeat each army in turn.’

‘Your dragons cannot be everywhere at once,’ said Thyriol. ‘How do you
plan to halt any fresh advances?’

‘We cannot,’ said Caledor, sitting down again. He looked at each of the
princes, gauging their resolve. He was not reassured by what he saw but
continued regardless. ‘We must deny the druchii any great victory. We
retreat before them, burning the fields, razing the storehouses.
Nagarythe is not a fertile kingdom, they depend upon what they take to
feed their armies.’

‘For how long?’ said Tithrain with an expression of horror. ‘Those lands
feed our people too. It would be ourselves that we also starve. A
season, perhaps, we could cope with...’

‘For as long as it takes,’ said Caledor. ‘We will bleed the druchii dry
with hunger and battle. We must be resolved to this. Hardship will come,
but with it also victory.’

‘No,’ said Athielle, earning herself a scowl from the Phoenix King. ‘The
pastures of Ellyrion are too valuable to waste in this way. Our fields
and herds have been nurtured for generations, we cannot throw that
effort away. It would be a triumph for our enemies.’

Caledor’s stare bore down on the princess but she did not flinch.
Glancing to Finudel, Caledor saw that he was in two minds, but knew he
would side with his sister in any argument.

‘What about Chrace?’ he said, looking to Koradrel.

‘The druchii have continually pillaged most of the meagre crop we grow,’
replied the Chracian prince. ‘With our hunters at war, the monsters of
the mountains grow bolder and attack our farms in greater numbers. What
we have left, we need for ourselves.’

‘The eastern kingdoms must provide for those beset in the west,’ said
Caledor. ‘If you cannot send soldiers, you must send food.’

‘I fear we can offer too little in that regard,’ said Thyriol. ‘For too
long we have relied on the supplies from our colonies. Those supplies
have dwindled. Elthin Arvan is in no less turmoil than Ulthuan.’

‘If your people will not farm, they will have to fight,’ said Caledor.
‘Every elf that can carry a spear must be trained. If not, they will die
unarmed.’

‘And while we raise a new army for you?’ said Tithrain. ‘What will you
do?’

‘Wait for the druchii to come again,’ said Caledor.

Every wheezing breath was like a rusty nail scratching across Morathi’s
heart. She bent over Malekith’s inert form, seeing the handsome elf he
had been, not the ravaged near-carcass that lay on the wide bed. His
eyes flickered to hers for a moment and there was recognition. A
withered hand reached out to her and she clasped it to her chest as she
knelt down beside the bed.

‘What news?’ the prince of Nagarythe whispered from cracked lips.

‘Our underlings disappoint us, my dear,’ replied Morathi. ‘The upstart
Caledor has pushed back our latest attacks. He refuses open battle,
using his dragons to hit our armies on the march before withdrawing.’

‘He is a coward.’

‘No, he is clever,’ said Morathi, placing Malekith’s hand beside him.
She stroked a hand across his bare scalp, skin flaking to the white
sheet. ‘He knows he cannot beat us, but seeks to stall our victory for
as long as possible. Our commanders have played his game too long. I
will force him into action.’

‘And the other?’ said Malekith, rising a little from the bed, eyes
intent on his mother.

‘It progresses well, my son,’ said the sorceress-queen. ‘You have done
well to survive these years of torment, yet you must hold on longer.
Such a work takes a long time to perfect, but when it is done you will
be restored to your glory.’

Malekith’s ruined face creased into a smile.

‘I can wait,’ he said. ‘My return will be triumphant and none will stand
before me.’

‘It will be glorious,’ said Morathi. ‘But we must keep your survival
secret still. Your sacrifice in the flames is a symbol to our people,
and until your resurrection to full power it is best to let them to
continue in that belief. It hurts me as much as you to know that you are
denied your position as ruler of Nagarythe, but it is for the best.’

Malekith said nothing and closed his eyes. Morathi stood up.

‘I must attend to some unpleasant business. Rest well.’

With a parting look at her son, Morathi left the chamber. She swept
across her rooms, gathering a trail of handmaidens and servants in her
wake. Walking down the sweeping steps at the centre of Aenarion’s
palace, she heard wails of torment echoing from the dungeons beneath the
citadel.

‘I thought I said all prisoners were to have their mouths stitched
shut,’ she said to one of her attendants.

‘I will see the torturers learn the error of their oversight,’ the
handmaiden replied, eyes glinting with cruel anticipation.

The entourage followed her across the great hall and down the steps of
the palace into the plaza outside. Five thousand Naggarothi stood in
silent ranks behind their captains and banners. They had been assembled
at dawn for her inspection and now the sun dipped towards the horizon.

Dismissing her cabal with a wave of a ringed hand, Morathi crossed the
square with long strides, heading directly towards Bathinair, who stood
at the front of the small army. The queen stopped in front of him, eyes
narrowed.

‘Give me your sword,’ she said.

Bathinair looked confused but did as he was told, pulling the gleaming
magical blade from its sheath. Morathi took it from him and held it up,
examining the fine workmanship. The prince’s eyes followed Morathi as
she stalked past him and beckoned to one of the company captains.

‘What is your name?’ she demanded.

‘Ekheriath, my queen,’ the captain replied with a deep bow.

‘Would you like to be Prince Ekheriath?’ she said.

‘Anything to serve you, my queen,’ the elf replied with a shorter bow.
‘It would be an honour to attend your court.’

Morathi struck more swiftly than a serpent, Bathinair’s sword lancing
through the captain’s gut. He fell with a stifled cry, eyes full of hurt
and betrayal. Morathi twisted the sword to the left and right, Ekheriath
writhing and moaning with each movement.

‘Princes do not fail me,’ she said, pulling free the blade.

She delivered a kick to the sprawling elf’s face and moved on, beckoning
to the next captain with the bloodied sword.

‘And your name?’ she snarled.

‘Nemienath, your majesty,’ the soldier said hesitantly, eyes straying to
the still-groaning Ekheriath who had slithered to his knees in a
spreading pool of his blood, one hand clasped to his wounded gut.

‘Would you like to be a prince?’

Nemienath did not reply, eyes darting left and right like a trapped
animal.

‘Well?’ Morathi’s snapped question made the captain flinch.

‘All who serve you wish to be included in your favours,’ he said, not
meeting her gaze.

‘Kill Bathinair,’ Morathi said, thrusting the sword into Nemienath’s
hand. ‘You can replace him.’

Bathinair spun around on hearing this, eyes wild with fear. Morathi
smiled approvingly as Nemienath showed no reluctance, dashing across the
square with the sword raised for the attack. Bathinair tried to catch
the blow on his armoured arm, but the mystical blade sliced through
without stopping, shearing just below the shoulder. With a cry,
Bathinair fell to the ground, blood spraying. Nemienath glanced back at
Morathi before delivering the killing blow, plunging the sword into
Bathinair’s exposed neck.

Morathi waved Nemienath to approach and kneel before her. He did so,
bending to one knee, head bowed. The queen stooped to cup his chin in
her hand, lifting his head to look at her, a smile on her ruby red lips.

‘What does it feel like to be a prince?’ she purred.

‘It is an honour, my queen,’ replied Nemienath. ‘I will bring glory to
Nagarythe in your name.’

‘You will?’ Morathi said sweetly. Nemienath nodded, locked to her gaze.
Morathi’s smile twisted to a snarl. ‘I had to give you a blade to bring
me honour! Why have you failed me so many times before?’

Magical energy crackled from her fingertips, engulfing Nemienath’s head.
Black lightning coursed through his shuddering body, burning and
splitting flesh, bursting blood vessels. Morathi let the smoking corpse
drop to the marble slabs, Bathinair’s sword clattering from the dead
grasp.

The queen rounded on the assembled Naggarothi warriors.

‘None of you are worthy to serve me!’ she cried. ‘You are incompetent or
you are traitors, I cannot tell which. I give you the might of Nagarythe
and you throw it away. I ask you for a simple thing, such a simple
thing, but you cannot do this for me. All I wanted was Yvraine’s head.’

‘The Everqueen, her powers are too great,’ one of the warriors called
back. ‘How do we fight Ulthuan itself?’

Morathi was about to spit back an angry reply, but stopped herself. The
anonymous warrior did have a point, though it was no excuse for the
defeats suffered. Yvraine possessed the power of the Everqueen, and that
was a fine prize. To control Avelorn, to seize the strength of Yvraine
would be a better victory than her simple death. There was another
reason to see Yvraine humbled before she died. Daughter of Aenarion by
his first wife, she had colluded with the princes at the First Council
to deny Malekith his right to be Phoenix King. She would beg for mercy
at the feet of the true ruler of Ulthuan, and admit that she had been
wrong to oppose her half-brother.

‘I can match the power of the Everqueen,’ Morathi announced, smiling
again, pleased with her conclusions. ‘When I take her magic from her and
see her broken before me, all will recognise the ascendancy of the
Naggarothi and the true queen of the elves. Draw together what forces
you can, bring forth the Khainites and the beasts of the Annulii. Gather
an army worthy of my command!’

The sky was choked with the burning of Avelorn. A pall of smoke covered
the land from the mountains of Chrace to the Inner Sea. Driven on by
Morathi, the army of Nagarythe scoured everything in its path, leaving a
swathe of ruin through the realm of the Everqueen. Pushed hard by their
queen, terrified of her reprisals for any delay, the Naggarothi princes
and commanders swept aside all resistance.

As before, Yvraine stirred the forest to its own defence, but this time
the Everqueen contended against the magic of Morathi and her cabal of
the most powerful sorcerers and sorceresses. Against the dark
incantations of the Naggarothi, the enchantments of Avelorn failed and
like a blight spreading across a leaf the druchii advance continued.

Fearing the worst, Yvraine sent word to Caledor, reminding him of his
duties to the Everqueen. The Phoenix King did not come, but sent
Thyrinor and two other dragon princes with an army of ten thousand
warriors, for the most part freshly trained troops begged from the
eastern kingdoms. On the ships of Eataine, Thyrinor brought this host
across the Inner Sea and landed on the coast of Avelorn ahead of the
druchii advance. Here he was met, like his cousin and Carathril before
him, by the Maiden Guard of the Everqueen. As then, Yvraine spoke
through her chosen captain, Altharielle.

‘It angers and saddens to me to see such desolation wrought upon the
heart of Ulthuan,’ said Thyrinor, having dismounted Anaegnir to speak
with Althinelle. ‘I wish that you had warned us sooner.’

‘The outer forests are of no consequence,’ replied the Everqueen, her
vessel’s eyes alight with the green glow of magic. ‘It is the Gaen Vale
that holds the power of Avelorn. The Aein Yshain must be protected at
all costs. This close to the sanctuary of Isha, my powers are at their
peak. Morathi believes she has the best of me, but she is wrong. We will
draw her on, closer to her prize, and in doing so Morathi will bring
about her own demise.’

‘A risky strategy,’ said Thyrinor. ‘To let the druchii approach so close
to the Gaen Vale gives us no place to retreat.’

‘Yet it is also the perfect site for battle,’ countered
Yvraine-Althinelle. ‘The narrow isthmus will allay some of the advantage
of the druchii army and force them on to our bows and spears.’

‘I see,’ said Thyrinor. ‘If that is your will, I shall obey. We will
move by ship along the coast and make camp at the Isthmus of the Gaen
Vale.’

‘Heed the guidance of the Maiden Guard,’ warned the Everqueen. ‘None set
foot upon the Gaen Vale save by the invitation of Avelorn itself. Know
that should you break this ban, I will be powerless to protect any
trespassers.’

Thyrinor shuddered and nodded.

‘Believe me, my queen, none will ignore such warnings,’ said the prince.
‘With your leave, we will head east and make landfall again in two days’
time.’

‘Until then, Prince Thyrinor,’ said Yvraine-Althinelle. ‘The enemy will
be close on your heels, do not tarry.’

With a deep bow, Thyrinor headed back to Anaegnir and mounted the
throne-saddle upon her back.

‘This place is steeped in magic,’ said the dragon, flicking her tongue
with distaste. ‘The air itself is cloying with the pollution of Chaos.’

Thyrinor felt it also; waves of dark magic that eddied down from the
vortex in the Annulii, drawn by the conjurations of Morathi and her
followers. As smoke polluted the sky, dark magic polluted the spirit. It
lay like a shroud on the prince’s thoughts and he could not help but
fear what would happen if their defence failed and Morathi took
possession of the Aein Yshain.

With such power in the hands of the druchii ruler, Ulthuan would be
plunged into an age as dark as the time of the daemons. The cytharai
cults would rule over the worship of the celestial gods and the elves
would be destroyed by their own savagery and sacrifice. As clear as a
landscape before him, Thyrinor could imagine the pyres burning day and
night and hear the screams of the priests’ victims.

He had seen such things writ on a smaller scale throughout Ulthuan, as
the cults sowed terror and discord amongst their enemies. The prince
felt sick at the memory of the bloodied and charred remains that had
been found in secret shrines and around bone-girdled altars.

‘I will die rather than live to see such misery,’ he told himself,
belting himself into the saddle harness. With a flap of wings, Anaegnir
was airborne, steering back towards the fleet that lay at anchor just
off the sandy shore.

‘They are desperate.’

Morathi flicked a gaze of annoyance at the underling who had interrupted
her thoughts. The sorcerer shrank bank from her gaze as motes of energy
danced in Morathi’s eyes. Had she been in a less favourable mood, a
dread gaze would have been the least punishment inflicted on the overly
talkative minion. Fortunately for him, Morathi shared his assessment as
she looked at the army stretched across the narrowest strip of land
ahead. This would be the last, futile attempt to hold her back.

Beyond the lines of silver and blue, red and green, lay the Gaen Vale.
Morathi could taste its power, glittering like a field of golden stars
across the canopy of the forest. The ground on which she was standing
throbbed with magic, sending shivers of energy through her even as she
coiled strands of dark magic about herself, pushing back the pure touch
of the Everqueen’s protective enchantments.

‘Make ready for the attack,’ she announced, gesturing for a beastmaster
to bring forward her mount.

The elf led a gigantic winged horse to his queen. Its hide was black,
its wings like those of an enormous bat, ribbed and veined. The
creature’s mane was like fire, bright orange and red, and its eyes were
like dark rubies. From its forehead jutted three spiralled horns that
had been bound in gold, and from its ears and nostrils hung talismans
wrought from black iron in the shape of Khainite runes. The dark pegasus
stomped and snorted, tugging back on the reins in the beastmaster’s
hands, nearly dragging him from his feet.

Morathi snatched the reins in one hand, pouring dark magic into the
muscles of her arm, making them as unmoving as stone. The dark pegasus
flicked its head hard and tried to rear up, but was brought up short,
almost falling over as Morathi stood immobile, holding it in place. It
whinnied and dropped down, bending its forelegs so that Morathi could
pull herself up to its bare back, nestling between the leathery wings.

‘Why are we not yet attacking?’ Morathi demanded, seeing that her army
had not moved.

‘They have three dragons, my queen,’ replied a captain, pointing to the
smoke-filled skies. Huge shapes flitted against the smog, licks of fire
trailing from their mouths. ‘If we advance beyond the range of our bolt
throwers, they will tear us apart.’

‘Sound the attack,’ said Morathi. ‘Do not concern yourself with
dragons.’

With that, she snarled a word of command at her mount and was borne into
the smoke-thick skies.

Trepidation washed through Thyrinor as he saw a black shape rising from
the midst of the druchii army. It seemed as if a dark cloud shrouded the
rider, pinpricks of light breaking through like a distant night sky.
More than the prince’s eyes, his magical sense caused his unease. The
pegasus rider was like a hole in the winds of magic, a sink into which
all of the magic drained, the force of its accumulation dragging at
Thyrinor’s consciousness. The closest he had felt to such a sensation
was the presence of Thyriol, but where the mage was like a warm glow,
the sorceress was a chill void, sucking all life and energy into
herself.

Only one elf could wield such power: Morathi.

‘She is just a single creature,’ said Anaegnir, sensing his fear. ‘A
fragile thing, easily broken.’

‘Morathi has not survived as long as she has by being fragile,’ warned
Thyrinor. ‘The daemons could not destroy her, nor Prince Malekith.’

The dragon snorted and dived, angling to intercept the rising pegasus.
The other dragon riders fell after Thyrinor, to the left and right.
Beneath them, the druchii army started its advance, lines of spearmen
and knights converging into columns to march along the narrow stretch of
land. From this height, Thyrinor could see the Inner Sea on both sides,
the surf a white border to the left and right of the dark mass of
infantry.

Plunging groundwards, the wind tugging at his cloak, Thyrinor felt an
expansion of pressure within his spirit. Half-shadows danced in his
vision, leering faces formed of thick smoke and air swirled around him.
He felt himself at the bottom of a great pit, sinking fast, being
swallowed up. He looked up, seeing the swathe of smoke above twisting,
coiling like a sea serpent, thrashing from side to side.

‘Beware!’ he shouted to Anaegnir. ‘Go left!’

The dragon did not heed him, but pressed on towards Morathi, jaw open,
forelegs extended. Glancing back, Thyrinor saw a huge tendril of
whirling smoke streaming down towards him.

‘Left!’ he shrieked. ‘Left!’

The dragon slipped sideways. Too late to avoid the descending column of
smoke, Thyrinor and Anaegnir were caught in a maelstrom of choking smog.
Buffeted and battered, dragon and rider whirled across the sky, the
wreathing smoke following them, growing thicker and tighter with every
passing moment.

Thyrinor slashed with his lance, meeting no resistance, yet the fog
settled on his shoulders like stone, and constricted about his throat
and chest like the grip of a giant. Anaegnir was struggling also,
belching flame, head thrashing from side to side as scales buckled and
bones creaked.

With a noise of tearing metal, Thyrinor’s breastplate caved in, crushing
his chest. Ribs splintered even as his helm gave way under the pressure,
shards of bone piercing lungs and heart. Anaegnir screeched, wings
buckling, bones snapping as the dragon and rider were compressed by the
titanic force of dark magic. Crimson streamed from Thyrinor’s eyes and
ears and nose and mouth, soaking the robe he wore beneath his armour.
Drowning on his own blood, the prince flopped sideways in the harness,
all air expelled from his body, organs and blood vessels collapsing.

A cheer welled up from the Naggarothi army as the mangled remnants of
the Caledorian and his dragon crashed into the forest. Morathi laughed
with them, filled with the intoxication of the spell and joy at her
enemy’s destruction. The other two dragons parted and climbed away, wary
for the moment. Morathi directed her steed after the one heading north,
a dragon with scales of jade and spines and claws of black. Drawing her
ensorcelled blade, Morathi raised the sword in challenge as the pegasus
swept up towards the monster above.

The prince atop the dragon drew his own blade, a flash of red against
the black of the smoke and cloud. The two riders closed quickly, heading
directly for each other, swords lifted ready for attack.

As the two were about to meet, Morathi wrenched hard on the reins,
steering her pegasus to the right, while she swept her sword in an arc
towards the Caledorian. Black lightning spat from the blade, earthing
itself through the dragon rider’s armour, dancing along his raised
sword. Snarling, Morathi whispered fell prayers to her daemonic allies,
drawing on more dark magic as she circled around the dragon, the
coruscation of energy moving from the prince to his mount. Scales
exploded and spines quivered as the dark magic lanced through the
dragon’s enormous frame. It gave a bellow and twisted, gouting fire at
the sorceress.

The cloud of darkness that surrounded Morathi solidified, turning away
the flames as it encased her in a swirling sphere of power. Insulted by
the attack, she directed her mount after the dragon as it pitched
groundwards, seeking to escape, its movements laboured, the stench of
charred flesh drifting in its wake.

The pegasus jinked and swerved to match the dragon’s panicked descent,
the more agile beast closing quickly as the dragon turned slowly to the
left and right. Seeing that it could not escape, the dragon banked as
sharply as possible, slashing its tail towards Morathi. She ducked, the
armoured spine of the tail passing less than a hand’s breadth from her
head. Slashing up with her blade, Morathi carved a ragged wound across
the base of the dragon’s tail, pouring dark magic into the grievous
laceration so that the exposed flesh and muscle boiled and bubbled,
blood steaming into the sky. With a strangely piercing wail, the dragon
rolled over, lashing out with its back legs. A claw caught the pegasus
across the flank, leaving a wound as wide as Morathi’s fist.

The queen of Nagarythe summoned up all of her scorn, ignoring the shrill
cries of the pegasus, and plunged the tip of her blade into the dragon’s
exposed underside. With a feral howl, she channelled the dark magic from
her spirit into the blade, pouring every vile curse and hex she knew
into the belly of the dragon. As her pegasus turned limply away, blood
streaming from the cut in its side, she watched the dragon’s scaled hide
erupting from within. Decay burst out from the wound in its gut,
spreading rapidly, scales withering and flaking away, flesh turning to
dust, bones crumbling.

The creature that had lived for millennia was engulfed by the rotting of
eternity, body parts falling away, flesh dropping in mould-encrusted
clumps, turning to scattering motes on the breeze.

Exhausted by the magic coursing through her, Morathi allowed the dark
pegasus to fly back to the ground. Slipping from its back, she almost
collapsed, gasping for air as daemonic voices whispered in her ear and
the flame of Chaos fluttered in her mind. For a moment, the cloud that
followed her closed tight, forming a ring of tiny whirling figures, each
miniscule fanged face laughing and jeering at her.

Straightening, Morathi sheathed her blade and cut her other hand through
the whirling mist, breaking the ring. She took a breath and snarled.

‘No. The time for your payment has not yet come. Leave me in peace, you
filth of the other worlds.’

Exerting her will, she gathered in the tendrils of dark magic that had
been leaking away, locking them up within her mind, whispering an
incantation of control and calm. The cloud settled, seeming to drift
into her body, sucked in through every pore, leaving Morathi’s pale
flesh glowing with unearthly light.

When she had the Aein Yshain, she would have no need of such dangerous
pacts. All of Ulthuan’s power, and all of the magic of the vortex, would
be at her command.

A tremor of fear washed through the army defending the Gaen Vale as a
second dragon tumbled from the sky. Yvraine felt the dread wash over her
like a cold wind. Now was not the time for faint hearts. The Everqueen
knelt in the grass, her green robe seeming to merge with the earth.
Sinking her fingers into the dirt, she closed her eyes and let herself
become one with Avelorn.

She gasped with pain, feeling the felled trees like cuts, the scorched
glades like burns on her skin. The stain that was Morathi’s presence
seared into her, her tread corrupting the ground beneath her feet.
Fighting through the agony, Yvraine touched upon the lode that was the
Aein Yshain. Gift of Isha, goddess-mother, the sacred tree pulsed with
the energy of life and the light of love and harmony. The Everqueen
tapped into that golden stream, healing the wounds upon her spirit
caused by the destruction of her forest. She allowed the rays of warmth
to flow from her fingertips, spreading through the fertile earth.

Around the Everqueen bushes and flowers blossomed into life. Rippling
out in a circle, the life energy spread through the elven army, bringing
with it the scent of spring and the warmth of summer. She felt Isha’s
power touching upon the hearts and minds of her defenders, leaving an
imprint on each, filling her army with renewed faith and resolve.

Trumpets rang out defiance, drowning out the drums and horns of the
druchii. Clear voices rose up in song, the anthems of the assembled
kingdoms ringing out in a developing harmony, silencing the curses and
war cries of the Naggarothi.

Yvraine reached further, out to the shores of the isthmus, tasting the
salt of the Inner Sea and the tang of the weeds beneath the water. She
sailed upon the waves, bodiless and free, beyond the taint of the smoke
to where the sun shone bright upon the water. Drawn up by the sunlight,
Yvraine danced amongst the clouds, ethereal hands beckoning the winds to
her, swirling and circling at her whim.

The breeze was light at first, just a quiet susurration in the treetops.
Yvraine concentrated, pulling in the elements, coaxing the currents of
the air to follow her. The wind strengthened, setting banners flapping
and crests flying. Stronger and stronger it blew, bending the branches
of the forest, tugging at cloaks and robes, flattening grass. Still
Yvraine called on the wind for more. Keening through the canopy of the
forest, it became a gale, trunks creaking with the strain, fallen
branches and leaves were whipped up by the wind, turning around and
around, faster and faster.

The songs of the elves fell silent, the last syllables carried away by
the howling wind. Deeper and deeper Yvraine reached, kept to her body by
the most slender of silver threads, almost lost within the spell she had
cast.

The wind struck the Naggarothi as a solid wall, hurling elves from their
feet, slamming horses into one another, tearing standards from their
poles and the poles from the grasps of those holding them. Bolt throwers
were picked up, scattering their missiles, sent tumbling over the sward
of the isthmus. Monstrous creatures bellowed, eyes slitted against the
hurricane, while the druchii tumbled into each other, spears breaking,
shields flying.

Then came an explosion of dark magic from Morathi. Like a black fire,
her counterspell raged through the winds, burning up their energy. Wind
and fire contested and in their meeting, Yvraine’s mind touched upon
that of her foe.

The Everqueen and sorceress recoiled from one another, minds flung apart
by the contact. Yvraine was snapped from her immobility and collapsed to
the ground; Morathi sank to her knees.

The moment had been so transient as almost to have never happened, yet
Yvraine felt herself tainted by it throughout her being. The darkness of
Morathi had seeped into her; Morathi felt sickened by the touch of the
Everqueen, the light of her nature like a fire in her mind.

Mutually spent, the two queens sought the help of their followers;
Morathi staggered to her cabal, Yvraine to the Maiden Guard. While they
recovered, the two armies marched upon each other.

Ten years of bitter war left no room for mercy. The elves of the
Everqueen and the Naggarothi threw themselves into the battle with
pitiless fury. Repeater crossbows savaged the opposing spearmen. The air
was thick with the missiles of the bolt throwers on both sides. The
surviving dragon rampaged through the knights of Nagarythe, while
hydras, basilisks and other Chaotic creatures brought from the pens
beneath Anlec ravaged their prey with claw and bite and petrifying gaze.

When the elves of the Everqueen gained the upper hand, the druchii had
only to think of the price of failure to redouble their efforts. When
the Naggarothi pressed for advantage, Avelorn’s defenders looked to
Yvraine for strength, knowing that perhaps they fought for the future of
their whole race.

The bloody fighting continued for most of the day, with neither side
gaining any significant advantage. Morathi’s sorceresses hurled dark
bolts of magic while mages of Saphery cast shimmering shields over their
troops to ward away the missiles of the enemy. The spirits of the
forests fought alongside the elves, treemen and dryads wreaking havoc
amongst the Naggarothi infantry surrounded by wisps of arboreal magic.
Naggarothi princes mounted on half-tamed manticores laid about the
Silver Helms of Cothique with flaming swords, their bestial mounts
roaring and biting, stinged tails puncturing breastplates and barding.

Crushed together by the thin strip of the isthmus, the battlefield was
clogged with the dead and the dying. The groans and shouts of the
wounded were louder than the fierce battle cries of those still able to
fight.

Morathi laughed at the carnage and hissed threats to her commanders,
urging them to finish off Avelorn’s protectors. Yvraine wept at the
slaughter, the blood of elves poisoning her lands, tainting the aura of
Isha that guarded the Gaen Vale.

Dusk was approaching when the breakthrough came.

Chasing down a squadron of fleeing knights, Prince Melthiarin and his
dragon strayed too close to the massed bolt throwers of the druchii.
Black shafts filled the sky, engulfing dragon and rider, piercing the
monster’s hide in many places. Seeing their foe grounded, the fleeing
knights rallied and charged, finishing off the Caledorian and his
monstrous steed with lance and sword; though a great number fell to the
prince and dragon before they were slain.

The fighting lulled and the two armies briefly parted, the leaders of
both sides recognising that their fates were about to be revealed.

Their strength almost spent, the druchii knew that their last chance for
victory was at hand. Taking a steed from one of her commanders, Morathi
joined her troops, waving them forwards with her sword, the air
crystallising with mystical ice around the enchanted blade. Around her
the druchii mustered for a final push, even the wounded dragging
themselves to their feet lest they be deemed cowardly for not fighting
to the last.

The line of elves pitted against them was thin, a sliver of silver and
gold and blue against the treeline of the Gaen Vale. Clarions sounded
the rally and they gathered about their standards, clearing away the
piles of the dead so that they could form up behind their shield walls
and thickets of spears.

As the druchii advanced, a lone figure emerged from the ranks of the
defenders. Her green and yellow gown trailing on the breeze, Yvraine
came before them, long locks of hair streaming, arms outstretched.

‘The Gaen Vale will never be yours!’ the Everqueen cried out, tears
pouring down her cheeks.

‘You cannot stop me!’ Morathi shrieked back. ‘All I have to do is reach
out and take it.’

‘That cannot be allowed,’ replied Yvraine.

The ground began to tremble and the light within Yvraine grew brighter,
gleaming from her eyes, particles of energy flowing from her splayed
fingertips into the ground.

Althinelle dashed forwards towards the Everqueen.

‘We can win!’ shouted the Maiden Guard’s captain. ‘Do not do this!’

Yvraine turned her head, light glimmering from her mouth as she spoke.

‘It is too late,’ said the Everqueen. ‘Ulthuan is wounded, but the Gaen
Vale must survive.’

‘But your power...’ Althinelle cast down her spear and reached out an
imploring hand towards her queen.

‘Better that it is gone than is stolen for evil purpose,’ replied
Yvraine. ‘We can no longer be trusted with it.’

‘What are you doing?’ screamed Morathi, spurring her horse into a
gallop, whipping her sword from its scabbard.

The ground heaved, throwing both armies to the ground, sending Morathi
toppling from her steed. Only Yvraine remained standing, as immobile as
the Aein Yshain itself, an eternal part of Avelorn. From behind her, at
the heart of the Gaen Vale, a golden glow filled the sky, burning away
the late afternoon clouds, stilling the wind.

‘Run,’ said Yvraine. ‘Run while you can.’

Pushing herself to her feet, Morathi heard these words and glared at
Yvraine. She was about to spit a retort when the ground moved again,
ravines cracking apart the isthmus from shore to shore. A wall of
foaming water crashed along the welts rent in the earth of Avelorn,
descending upon both armies.

The elves needed no encouragement. The remnants of the Naggarothi fled
back into wasted Avelorn while the defenders headed for their boats on
the very edge of the Gaen Vale. Morathi, caught in the middle of the
destruction, looked left and right and behind her, and saw that the
water would be upon her before she could reach the higher ground.

‘Spirits of Anaekhian, hearken to your dark mistress!’ she cried,
throwing aside her sword to lift up her arms. ‘It is time to play your
part in our bloody contract!’

Thousands of black moths erupted from the flesh of Morathi, their wings
marked with red runes of Chaos. They engulfed the sorceress, becoming
part of her, turning her body to shadow as they bore her upwards even as
the two walls of the inrushing sea crashed together beneath her.

The waters swirled around Yvraine, bearing her up also, a spiralling
waterspout carrying the Everqueen gently back to the Gaen Vale as the
isthmus sank beneath the waves. Many from both sides had been too slow
and were swept away, Althinelle amongst them; the bodies of the dead
covered the swirling, frothing sea, tossed this way and that by the
tumult of the waves.

Alighting on the shore of the Gaen Vale as the ships of the other elves
were pushed out by the foaming currents of the new strait, Yvraine
looked at the druchii army retreating from the far shore. She sighed,
feeling empty and exhausted. No more were the Gaen Vale and Ulthuan
linked together, the breaking of the isthmus symbolic of the magical
rent the Everqueen had wrought between her sanctuary and Ulthuan.

She turned her back on the settling waters and walked into the woods,
heading for her chambers beneath the Aein Yshain. She had protected the
sacred glade, but at the cost of the eternal diminishing of her powers.
The trees parted for her, opening up a wide avenue to the Glade of
Eternity. Ahead, the shining tree of Isha dimmed, its leaves losing
their shimmering gleam, its bark no longer bright with golden energy.

The Everqueen still ruled Avelorn, but the true power of Ulthuan would
now reside with the Phoenix King.
