
TWELVE 

Avelorn Withers

The flower was wilting. Its leaves hung lank and yellowing, stem
twisted, pale blue petals ragged-edged as they dropped to the ground.
Yvraine knelt beside the plant, sensing the source of its malaise. All
of Ulthuan was sickening. Dark magic flowed, corrupting everything it
touched. Unspeakable rites were performed in the name of the undergods.
The Everqueen’s people slew each other across the isle. The harmony of
Ulthuan was disrupted and all was falling to disorder.

Yvraine touched an extended finger to a drooping leaf and let free a
fragment of her power. Life flowed into the flower and it straightened
and coloured, infused with the Everqueen’s magic. It was a gesture and
nothing more. She could not heal every hurt being wrought upon Ulthuan.

The Everqueen knelt beside the flower and pushed her fingers into the
earth, feeling every particle of soil on her skin. Long hair flowing
about her face, she closed her eyes and took a deep breath, inhaling the
scent and moisture of the bare ground, breathing in the life force of
Isha.

She let her mind wander from the mortal shell that others knew as
Yvraine, and seeped into the soil, slowly spreading through the Gaen
Vale, out into Avelorn and onwards, through every blade of grass and
bloom in Ulthuan.

Her spirit wept as her mind felt the crushing tread of the Naggarothi
armies over pasture and meadow. She recoiled at the taste of blood in
the rivers and streams. Armies camped beneath the bowers of ancient
trees and cut them down to feed their fires.

The Everqueen retreated back to Avelorn, dismayed by what she had felt.
Hatred, greed, zealotry, and not just from the Naggarothi. Always it was
so, evil rising from evil to feed itself. The filth of Chaos lingered in
the air and the water and the ground. Her people would never be free of
its touch.

For all her dark thoughts, she knew that there was always hope. From the
memories she shared with her many mothers she knew that Ulthuan had seen
an age far worse than the present. Life could not be so easily
extinguished. The pain of Avelorn still lingered in her heart from when
it had been razed by the daemons. The forest had grown again from that
perilous time, yet the greater damage had been done. Her father,
Aenarion, had taken the Godslayer, and in that single act had welcomed
violence into the hearts of the elves forever. The Naggarothi could not
be blamed for what they had become, the seed of their evil had been sown
generations earlier.

Yet that seed of darkness had been nurtured by evil purpose. The
Everqueen’s thoughts turned to the architect of this new time of woe:
Morathi. It was her spite, her jealousy, her greed that had fuelled this
war. All of the blood spilt ran as a flood from Morathi’s hands.

That flood had come to Avelorn now. Armoured warriors roamed into the
western woods from the mountains of Chrace, killing and burning. They
were a scourge upon everything, seeking to tame and conquer nature
itself. Yvraine’s consciousness moved along branch and root, spying upon
the Naggarothi camps. She felt the patter of blood on the grass beneath
the sacrificial altars, tasted the charnel smoke of the pyres through
her leaves, while animal terror coursed through her roots from the
fleeing creatures of the forest.

The sun fell and rose and fell again many times as Yvraine watched the
Naggarothi, seeking to divine their purpose. They drove everything
before them, wolf beside the deer, fox beside the rabbit, hawk beside
the dove. All were united in their dread of the dark slaughter that had
come to Avelorn.

Drawn by her anger, the Maiden Guard gathered in the clearing around
Yvraine’s still form. In the silver-and-gold glow of the Aein Yshain,
Isha’s favoured tree, the warriors of Avelorn sharpened their spears and
strung their bows, waiting for their queen to resurface. They too felt
the discord rampaging through Avelorn, and had come to this sacred glade
to hear what would be done about it.

There was too much death, and violence would always defeat itself. Yet
the forest had to be protected and its people and creatures defended
against the malice of Morathi and her soldiers.

Yvraine returned to her mortal form, its skin shining with a faint light
as her spirit took its place. She stood and looked upon her army in
their golden scale and green cloaks.

‘My husband-to-be does not come to our aid,’ she said with
disappointment. ‘He proves as fallible as the others, short-sighted and
selfish. He has not yet even come to seek my blessing in person, nor
join with me so that the reign of the Everqueen will be sustained. Yet I
sense that we will not stand alone. From across Ellyrion comes the army
of his brother. Go to them and show them the paths through the forest
that will take them to our enemies. Drive them from the glades and the
deep woods with spear and arrow, and then return to me.’

Her will made known, Yvraine retreated to the caves beneath the arching
roots of the Aein Yshain. She sat upon her throne of curled roots while
attendants busied themselves with gourds of water taken from the sacred
springs, filling the pools that surrounded the Everqueen’s seat. Images
shimmered in each pond, showing Avelorn from west to east, south to
north. While time passed in the world outside, Yvraine shared the life
of the great tree of Isha, each day like a single heartbeat of
existence.

After a few moments, she was disturbed from her contemplation by a
presence within the sacred glade. Rising from her throne, green and
yellow gown flowing like a gossamer waterfall behind her, Yvraine left
the chamber and found one of the treemen of Avelorn waiting for her in
the glade above.

‘Oakheart,’ she said. ‘Long it has been since you first brought my
brother and me to the Gaen Vale and long since you spoke to the First
Council. What disturbs you to bring you to my court?’

The treeman moved slowly, limb-branches unfolding, trunk curving gently
as if in a wind, to bow before the Everqueen.

‘One is coming that should not come,’ said Oakheart as he straightened
with a quivering of browning leaves. He too felt the waning of Avelorn’s
power, the autumn blighting what should have been an existence of
eternal summer. His voice was quiet, like the sighing of wind through
branches. ‘He has made pact with the wolves and they lead him to Gaen
Vale.’

Yvraine nodded and allowed herself to drift for a short while, seeking
this person. She found him, an elf clad in nothing but a sword belt,
running with a great pack of wolves.

‘You are right, he cannot come to the Gaen Vale,’ she said, reclaiming
her body with a shudder. ‘Yet he cannot be turned away unaided. I sense
the spirit of the hunter in him. The time has come for Isha’s gift to be
passed on. Let the wolves take him to the Lake of the Moon, and see if
he has the will to claim Kurnous’s prize for himself.’

‘And if he still seeks sanctuary in Gaen Vale?’ sighed Oakheart.

‘He is touched by darkness and cannot come here,’ replied the Everqueen.
‘Guard the sanctity of our home and turn him away, but do not harm him.’

‘As the forest wills it,’ said Oakheart.

As the treeman left the glade, Yvraine returned to study the elf from
her vision. He was young, barely an adult, and she watched him fight
ferociously with a Naggarothi knight. He was brave, but savage at heart.
As Isha had chosen Yvraine, so the hunter Kurnous had chosen this elf.
The Moonbow of Isha would be enough of a reward for the young elf’s
brave deeds defending Avelorn; but he would have to put it to use
elsewhere. The evil he fought was within him as well as outside, and
Yvraine could not risk having such a person in the Gaen Vale at this
precarious time.

Leaving the feral hunter to his fate, she dismissed him from her
thoughts and returned to her throne chamber to witness the battle
against the Naggarothi.

The forests of Avelorn were no place for a dragon and Dorien had
regrettably been given no choice but to lead his army from horseback;
Thyrinor and the other dragon riders had flown further north, to seek
out the Naggarothi where the mountains of Chrace shouldered down into
the ancient woods.

The Caledorian prince was nervous. It was not the prospect of battle
with the Naggarothi that disturbed him – he relished the coming fight –
but the strange nature of his environs and his quiet allies. The Maiden
Guard had met his army on the border of Ellyrion and Avelorn. In a quiet
but determined way, their captain had told Dorien he was to follow her
warriors through the forests. No elf was to leave the trail that was
set, and though no warning had been given as to what might befall such a
wanderer, such were the tales of Avelorn that every elf under Dorien’s
command knew to obey the edict.

By twisting paths that seemed to spring from the woods at the army’s
approach, the Maiden Guard had led Dorien through the deep forests,
heading ever north and west. When asked about the enemy, the Avelorn
warrior-maidens would say only that there were several thousand of them
and that they were currently being waylaid. The march took several days,
and at night Dorien lay awake in his tent, listening to the murmuring of
the trees, the screech of owls and the howling of wolves. Each morning
when he left his pavilion, he was convinced the forest had changed.
Pathways had opened up from the clearings that had not existed the
evening before, and even rivers seemed to have diverted their courses so
that the army could pass without hindrance.

Dorien was a native of the mountains and whole days would pass without
sight of the sky beyond the thick canopy, fuelling his fears. He
considered himself at home in the wilds, like many elves, but it was
only on coming to Avelorn that he realised just how tame the
wildernesses of Ulthuan had become under the moulding of the elves’
desires. Beyond Avelorn every wood and dale had a sculpted quality;
carefully managed to appear untamed, yet in comparison to the forest of
the Everqueen they were as ordered and safe as a manse’s gardens.

The sentries on night watch whispered about the constant creaking and
groaning of the woods; of flickers of faerie lights and strange eyes in
the moonlight. The Maiden Guard assured Dorien that there was nothing to
fear, and hinted that for all the unease the elves of the other kingdoms
felt at Avelorn’s strange ways, it was nothing compared to the terror
being heaped upon the Naggarothi invaders. Dorien was pleased to hear
this but could get no answers when he pressed for more information.

After seven nerve-wracking days and nights traversing the wild woods,
Dorien was told that the Naggarothi were close at hand. The smoke of
fires carried on the breeze, and it seemed that the trees were even more
active than before.

‘While the Maiden Guard are at home in such a place, my army is not
meant for warfare in such close confines,’ Dorien complained to
Althinelle, the captain of the Maiden Guard.

‘There is no need to lament,’ she replied. ‘Your knights shall have even
ground on which to charge and your archers shall have clear fields over
which to loose their arrows.’

‘While I am thankful for the assurance, I cannot see how we shall lure
the Naggarothi onto this open ground you have prepared,’ said the
prince. ‘I fear we will be outmanoeuvred.’

‘Our enemies do not yet know the field of battle, but they will have no
choice but to come there,’ said Althinelle. ‘Avelorn will bring them to
you. Make ready your army and head due west. Battle will be upon you
before noon.’

Offering no other explanation, Althinelle left Dorien to his confused
thoughts. The Maiden Guard departed the camp, heading westwards, while
the army prepared to march. Dorien mounted his horse and joined the
knights of Caledor in the middle of the army, while archers and spearmen
were sent forwards in the vanguard to seek the open space of which
Althinelle had spoken.

Without the Maiden Guard to lead the way, progress was slower. Dorien
gazed constantly up through the leaves to track the rising of the sun,
fearful he would miss some appointment whose time and place he did not
exactly know.

He had no cause for such fears. Shortly before midday, scouts returned
with news that fighting could be heard to the west, though they had not
been able to locate the Naggarothi army itself. Following the scouts,
the army headed towards the shouts and cries that echoed through the
trees.

As if pushed aside by some vast hand, the woods abruptly stopped not far
to the west. The trees lined a vast sunlit glade, the floor of which was
carpeted in thick grass and meadow flowers. Dorien was amazed by the
sight of it, but his wonder was short-lived; on the other side of the
clearing, black-robed figures marched into view. Some were helping
wounded companions and the sounds of fighting came closer.

More and more Naggarothi emerged, staggering into the daylight, arrows
falling on them from the darkness of the wooded eaves of the glade.
Several thousand in all hastily gathered their ranks as Dorien’s army
spread out to north and south, the knights on the right end of the line,
ready to sweep around the enemy.

Beyond the Naggarothi the prince could see shapes moving through the
woods; he assumed it was the Maiden Guard from the continued sounds of
conflict and death that rang across the clearing.

Dorien ordered the musicians to signal the advance and his army paced
towards the Naggarothi, spears and bows at the ready. The druchii formed
a short, solid line of spears and repeater crossbows, at the heart of
which sat a few hundred knights in reserve. There was not a patch of
high ground to defend, and the Naggarothi were sorely outnumbered.

‘They are fools to stand and fight,’ said Laudneril, riding to Dorien’s
right bearing the prince’s household standard.

‘I think they would rather take their chances with us than the woods,’
said Dorien.

‘I do not think they have any choice in that!’ Laudneril replied with
shock, pointing towards the far edge of the glade.

The trees were moving. It was hard to see exactly how, but the wall of
trunks and branches marking the border of the clearing was creeping
closer to the Naggarothi. The ground rumbled gently, causing the
knights’ horses to whinny and stamp.

Arrows sliced the air as Dorien’s archers came within range. The druchii
crossbowmen ventured closer, casting suspicious eyes at the advancing
woods, and returned the volleys with missiles of their own. Though they
had marched at least five hundred paces into the vast clearing, the
Naggarothi now found the trees no more than two hundred paces from their
backs. Keening cries and shrill calls came from all around. To the north
and south, the woods closed in as well, girding the clearing with an
almost solid ring of trees.

Unable to retreat, the Naggarothi held their ground as Dorien’s army
pressed in for the attack. The druchii knights cut to the north, seeking
to head off Dorien’s cavalry, while spear blocks manoeuvred for
advantage and the bolts and arrows of both sides passed overhead.

As the two armies converged, Dorien remembered the warnings of his
brother. Though the druchii were outnumbered, they were veterans of war,
raised in bloody Nagarythe, tested in the colonies. For the most part
his own army, save for a core of Caledorians who had seen battle in
Elthin Arvan, were largely untested. It was the dragons that had broken
the siege at Lothern and routed the Naggarothi at Ellyrion Plains; he
wished he had known Avelorn would provide an open field of battle and
not sent the dragons north.

He pushed such thoughts from his mind as the two columns of cavalry
charged each other. The druchii knights were armoured from toe to scalp
in mail and plate, faces hidden behind narrow-visored helmets, their
horses protected by chamfrons and scale barding. Black and purple
pennants fluttered from lowering lance tips and the ground thundered
beneath the iron-studded hooves of their black horses.

Dorien drew Alantair, an heirloom of the war against the daemons. The
slightly curved blade glimmered with runes, orange fire playing along
its edge from hilt to tip. The Caledorian prince lifted his shield and
singled out a foe to attack, guiding his steed with gentle nudges with
his knees. He chose a druchii clad in golden armour, a black cloak
swirling from his shoulders. His helm was masked with a daemonic face
and curling silver horns topped it as a crest. He rode beside a banner
of red cloth embroidered with the rune of Anlec in black; a captain,
Dorien thought, or perhaps even a Naggarothi prince.

‘For Caledor!’ the prince bellowed, the war cry answered by the Silver
Helms around him.

The Naggarothi were chanting as they charged, a dirge-like chorus in
time to the beating hooves of their mounts. Barbed and jagged lance tips
gleamed in the sunlight.

At the last moment, Dorien’s horse swayed to the left, the Naggarothi’s
lance smashing into the prince’s shield with a crackle of energy. The
impact almost threw Dorien from the saddle but he gripped tight with his
legs and swung his sword over the horse’s head as the two riders passed,
the ­flaming blade shearing through the shield of his foe, sending the
druchii’s arm into the air.

Dorien had no time to finish off the Naggarothi; another enemy knight
crashed into him, lance missing the Caledorian’s shoulder by a hair’s
breadth. Dorien chopped into the back of the druchii as he galloped
past.

The impetus of both sides dissipated by the mutual charge, the two
forces of knights swirled about each other in a spreading melee. The
druchii discarded their lances and drew axes and swords, while Dorien
slashed left and right, Alantair’s burning blade slicing through flesh
and armour. The noise was deafening, metal ringing on metal, the shouts
of the warriors, the stamp and whinnying of their steeds.

Bodies of horses and elves piled on the blood-slicked grass as both
sides fought mercilessly. Dorien’s steed stumbled and righted itself in
the gore, leaving the prince open to an attack from his right. An axe
blade crashed against the side of his helm, protective runes flaring
with magical power. Still, he was dazed, and could only clumsily fend
away the next blow with the blade of Alantair. Dorien could feel blood
trickling down the side of his neck and his head throbbed. As if in
response, the ache in his leg returned. The healers had done everything
they could, but there had been no time to properly rest and recuperate.

Another knight surged between Dorien and the attacking druchii, his
sword thrusting into the other elf’s visor with a spray of blood. The
Naggarothi toppled sideways, crashing to the ground. Dorien gave the
Caledorian knight a salute of thanks and kicked his steed into the press
of cavalry, seeking a fresh foe.

By mutual desire, the two sides slowly parted, seeking clearer ground
for another charge. As Dorien had feared, the druchii had matched his
knights despite their fewer numbers; there were more bodies of friends
than foes littering the clearing. As the squadrons reformed a couple of
hundred paces apart, Dorien turned his attention to the infantry. There
also the momentum of the attack had been halted and a sprawling fight
now raged.

Arcs of black energy revealed the presence of a sorcerer. White-robed
spearmen were thrown back by the magical blast, their armour crackling,
skin burning. The white glow of protective talismans enveloped Theriun,
the prince leading the infantry, as another hail of dark energy
flickered along the line. The knights needed to outflank the druchii,
but there was no way to do so with the enemy cavalry still threatening.
If they charged now, Dorien’s squadrons would in turn be attacked in the
rear. He cast a hasty glance towards the druchii knights and saw that
they were already advancing again.

Dorien could feel the dark magic surging through the air, like a
pressure in the back of his skull. The sensation was tinged with the
power emanating from Alantair. Yet it was something else that had
attracted Dorien’s attention to the ebb and flow of the winds of magic.
He felt power seeping through the ground, gathering quickly.

The druchii charged again, banners fluttering. Still reorganising
themselves, Dorien’s Silver Helms hastily formed to face the renewed
attack. Dorien fervently wished he had a dragon or two as he watched the
block of black and gold bearing down on his unprepared warriors.

The magic of the earth surged. To Dorien it felt as if the ground
shifted, so violent was the build-up of mystical energy. Beneath the
steeds of the druchii, the grass erupted. Vines with thorns like daggers
shot into the air, coiling and snaring, ripping the druchii from their
steeds, strangling and tripping horses. In moments, a massive briar
enveloped the Naggarothi, tightening around necks and limbs, barbs
piercing mail and flesh. The scream of dying horses and the panicked
shrieks of the druchii accompanied a dread-inducing creaking and
slithering as more and more tendrils burst from the earth, lashing with
violent life.

Beyond the clashing lines of infantry, Dorien saw that the forest was on
the move again. Only this time shapes emerged from the trees. Massive,
gangling creatures with flesh of wood and skin of bark strode into the
clearing. Behind them came a host of smaller creatures, bounding and
running on branch-like limbs. Winged spirits with small bows flitted
about the branches of the treemen, shooting glimmering darts into the
backs of the druchii.

With them lumbered giant bears and packs of black-furred wolves raced
into the clearing, snarling and slavering. Hawks and owls swept down
from the treetops, leading flocks of smaller birds that engulfed the
druchii repeater crossbows, pecking at faces, talons scratching.

Looking back at the Naggarothi knights, he saw that all but a few dozen
had been slain. The survivors, many unhorsed, hacked their way free of
the magical briar. Dorien commanded half of his knights to finish off
the enemy cavalry, and ordered the rest to follow him as he pointed his
sword at the beleaguered Naggarothi infantry.

As the Silver Helms charged, the treemen reached the line of druchii
soldiers. Club-like fists smashed bone and buckled armour. Fingers
filled with the power of delving roots prised open helms and punched
through breastplates. The spears and swords of the druchii chopped
harmlessly at the treemen, who were as impervious to the blows as the
mightiest oak. Crushed and trampled, trapped against the resurgent
spearmen of Dorien, the druchii died in their hundreds.

The prince’s cavalry charge was the final blow. As bears crushed bodies
and wolves dragged down fleeing druchii, the knights hammered into the
flank of the Naggarothi, cutting them down, smashing them to the ground
with the impact of their steeds. His horse flailed its hooves into the
face of a spearman while Dorien’s blade decapitated another.

The druchii fought to the last, knowing that the forest offered no
sanctuary for retreat. Surrounded by elves and spirits of Avelorn, they
sold their lives with spat curses on their lips, vowing vengeance from
the pits of Mirai. Dorien’s arm was sore with the effort of slaying, for
the battle continued long into the afternoon.

When it was done, Althinelle came to Dorien. The Maiden Captain’s armour
was awash with blood, her fair hair stained with gore, her speartip
slick. There was something feral about her appearance, and Dorien
wondered at the power that had been unleashed by the fury of Avelorn.

Dismounting, Dorien gave the captain of the Maiden Guard a brief bow and
sheathed his sword.

‘I wonder if Avelorn ever needed us here,’ he said.

Althinelle said nothing for a moment. Her features seemed to shimmer
with a pale green light, and when she looked at Dorien, it was with eyes
that seemed as ancient as the forest around them.

‘You have our gratitude, Dorien of Caledor,’ said Althinelle. ‘We could
not defeat this enemy alone.’

‘It is my honour to protect the ancestral lands of our people,’ said
Dorien. He felt the same shimmer of earth magic as he had during the
battle, though now it was subtler, more diffused. ‘Without Avelorn’s
intervention, I fear we might not have been victorious.’

‘The Naggarothi will come again,’ said Althinelle.

‘I will leave what troops I can,
but they are sorely needed
elsewhere,’ replied Dorien. ‘Cothique is under
threat, and my brother will need my aid when he
sails there after the council of princes.’

‘Send my regards to your brother,’ said Althinelle, surprising Dorien.
He looked at her more closely and realised that he was no longer
addressing the captain of the Maiden Guard. ‘Tell him that I look
forward to our wedding. And warn him that he should not delay too long
before he visits Avelorn; there are precious few moments left to us.’

Dorien dropped to one knee and bowed his head.

‘Everqueen,’ he said. ‘Forgive my brother’s tardiness. He has many
things on his mind, and I fear that your blessing is not one of them.’

Althinelle-Yvraine laid a hand on Dorien’s arm and gently pulled him to
his feet. He kept his gaze averted, fearing to look into those deep
green eyes again.

‘Take your dead from this place,’ said the Everqueen. ‘You will be
guided into Chrace, and from there you may head east and meet Caledor in
Cothique.’

‘Thank you, Everqueen,’ said Dorien. ‘And what of the druchii bodies?
Shall we dispose of them also?’

Althinelle-Yvraine shook her head and turned to look over her shoulder.

‘Avelorn will deal with them,’ she said, with what seemed like sadness.
‘The forest will sate itself with their remains.’

Dorien looked to where her gaze was directed and saw that the trees of
the forest were already enveloping the druchii dead. Roots coiled
through the corpses, dragging them down into the shifting earth. It
seemed as if blood dripped from the leaves of the trees as they drank
deep of the slain.

‘Go now.’ Dorien saw that Althinelle was herself again. The wildness in
her eyes had gone and she seemed as weary as he felt. ‘We shall leave a
clearing for you to camp tonight. We will head north at dawn.’

Dorien nodded and turned away, shouting for his captains. The sooner he
was out of fabled Avelorn, the more comfortable he would feel.
