
FOURTEEN 

The Phoenix King’s Court

Majestic eagles circled overhead, their vast shadows flickering across
the rough stone of the mountain pass. These were no ordinary birds of
prey; they were great eagles, capable of seizing a mountain lion to
devour, each wing twice an elf’s height in breadth. Carathril reined his
steed to a halt and sat there for a moment, gazing up into the blue
skies, watching the birds swoop and climb around the snowy peaks of the
Annulii. The jingle of harnesses broke his reverie as his accompanying
bodyguard, Aerenis, brought his mount to a stop beside him.

The two elves were clad in blue woollen cloaks to guard against the cold
of the high mountains, Carathril’s edged with golden thread as a symbol
of his rank as captain. Each wore a skirt of light scale mail, split at
the waist and hemmed with bleached leather, and wide belts decorated
with gems and silver. Long white shields hung on their saddlebags,
Carathril’s painted with the face of a roaring lion, Aerenis’s decorated
with a single golden rune – sarathai, the symbol of defiance and
unyielding defence. Both of the riders wore the tall helms favoured by
elven warriors across all of the kingdoms, Carathril’s decorated with
the lion crest of his family, Aerenis’s plain but for the azure plume of
a single feather.

They carried leaf-bladed spears and long recurved bows in their ­saddle
packs, and each carried a quiver of white-fletched arrows. Fortunately,
they had not had reason to wield such wargear, for their passage had
been uneventful.

Despite the seeming tranquillity of the pass neither elf was relaxed.
They were crossing through the highest range of the Annulii, where the
magical vortex of Ulthuan drew a ring of mystical energy through the
mountains. Here magic infused the air and ground; it pulsed and ebbed
around the two elves with a barely felt quiver of power. Carathril and
Aerenis, attuned to the mystical breezes and flows of the world,
unconsciously sensed its presence and strength.

Other creatures were drawn here also, grown large on the unnatural
energy like the eagles, but of an entirely less friendly nature.
Griffons, with the bodies of massive lions and the heads and wings of
giant birds, made their lairs in the mountaintops, while gigantic
serpents and bizarre cockatrices lurked in the caves and gulleys swept
by the magical winds.

The lieutenant’s eyes glimmered from the darkness of his visor as he
looked at Carathril.

‘Captain?’ Aerenis spoke quietly, shielding his eyes against the sun as
he followed his captain’s gaze. ‘What troubles you?’

‘It is nothing,’ Carathril assured his second-in-command. ‘Just a
passing fancy, a whim.’

‘How so?’ asked Aerenis.

‘Nothing disturbs them, the great eagles, that is,’ Carathril said
quietly. ‘They eat, and they breed, and they raise their chicks, far
removed from our woes. Such freedom, to soar and to hunt, unfettered by
anguish or strife. You know, they say that the mages in Saphery can
transform themselves into doves or hawks.’

‘You would glide upon the breeze as a bird?’ Aerenis sounded dubious.
Carathril was not known for poetic flights of fantasy. ‘“They” say a lot
of things about those Sapherians, and they are a strange folk that is
for sure. But I doubt that they could transform themselves into a bird.
Magic does not work so simply, or so I believe. Anyway, why would you
want to be a bird? You are not carefree and capricious. What of your
duty to Lothern, and your pledge to the Phoenix King? Do these things
not give you solace in these dark times?’

‘They do, for sure,’ said Carathril, turning to Aerenis with a grim
smile. ‘And with that in mind, we should be on our way to bear tidings
to King Bel Shanaar.’

Carathril and Aerenis rode down the winding path of the pass, their
horses delicately picking their way along a narrow path of grey cobbles
as the valley narrowed into a defile no more than a stone’s throw wide.
The light of the morning sun had not yet breached the canyon tops, and
they plunged into cool shadow.

Above them, the air danced and shimmered and a faint magical aurora
played about the barely visible mountain peaks. Occasionally the distant
silhouette of an eagle would pass overhead. The rock here was pale and
broken, and tumbles of scree and pebbles littered the crevasse floor, so
that the two elves were forced to ride slowly, their steeds picking
their way carefully between the patches of debris. Scattered
whitethistle bushes clung to life under rocky overhangs, the last few
brilliant blooms still opening their petals, the first deep red berries
bursting into colour on slender, thorned stems. Here and there thin
trickles of meltwater from the higher slopes meandered across the path.

Silence descended, broken only by the occasional sighing of the wind
across the rocks. They rode on without word for some time, each elf
alone with his thoughts. To Carathril’s familiar eye, Aerenis seemed
distant, perturbed. He rode with a tenseness the guard captain had not
seen before.

‘Dark thoughts?’ Carathril asked, reining his steed across the path to
ride alongside his lieutenant. ‘The events at the prince’s manse disturb
you.’

‘They do,’ admitted Aerenis.

‘I am sorry we could not save them all,’ Carathril said, guessing his
companion’s guilt.

‘It is more than that,’ Aerenis replied. ‘Before you pulled me back, I
recognised a face I knew. A friend of my sister, Glarionelle, she was
there.’

‘The flames were too strong; you could not have rescued her.’ Carathril
said, leaning across to place a comforting hand on his friend’s
shoulder.

‘That I know,’ Aerenis said with a nod. He turned his face skywards and
spoke as if to himself. ‘Though it grieves me it is not the cause of my
pain. Why was she there at all? She always seemed so full of life when I
saw her. Her laughter came fast and lasted long. What drove her to seek
the solace of the forbidden gods?’

Aerenis closed his eyes for a moment and then turned his gaze on
Carathril, his dark blue eyes moist with tears.

‘How could someone so fair have fallen to such depths?’

Carathril did not reply immediately, but thought for a moment, choosing
his words. There was little comfort he could offer Aerenis, for he could
not begin to understand his suffering. Carathril was the last of his
family, his forefathers had died fighting the daemons and he was without
wife or heir. Since the fall of Aenarion only duty and discipline had
filled his heart.

‘I do not know,’ he said, removing his hand and brushing a lock of
silver hair from his face. ‘Perhaps it was curiosity that lured her, and
then passion that kept her snared. I have heard tales, no more than
rumours, that not all go to such gatherings willingly. Some are fooled
by the coven leaders, others forcibly taken from their homes, drugged
and abducted. Those who might have the answers you seek are now dead,
for good or ill. Find solace in the fact that we saved some, even if we
could not save them all.’

‘You are a strong leader and a wise counsellor,’ said Aerenis with a
rueful smile, meeting Carathril’s gaze. A sombre expression replaced the
smile and Aerenis glanced away. ‘Perhaps it should have been you and not
Aeltherin who was prince.’

Carathril laughed with genuine amusement and Aerenis shot him a shocked
glance.

‘What do you find so amusing?’ demanded Aerenis with a frown.

‘The blood of princes does not run in my veins,’ Carathril explained.
‘My father and grandfather did not draw weapons alongside Aenarion, they
were not warrior-princes fit to rule these lands. For all my station,
for all my swordcraft and authority, I am content to be a servant, for I
am the son of farmers, not fighters. While Aenarion and the princes
fought, my family sheltered behind their blades, thankful for the
protection of their betters. They were slain in fields of corn, not upon
fields of blood. I do not feel ashamed, for no matter how mighty a
prince becomes, he still needs water to drink and bread to eat. I
believe that life and destiny finds a place for us all, and that is a
comfort to me.’

‘Well, let us hope life has beds for us in Tor Anroc this night!’ joked
Aerenis, eager to lighten the mood.

Carathril gave his lieutenant a playful shove.

‘And one of those golden-haired Tiranoc maidens to warm it for you, no
doubt!’

Their laughter echoed along the defile, sending a flock of birds darting
into the darkening skies.

The autumnal sun was low on the horizon as Carathril and Aerenis rode
through the long grass of Tiranoc. Their descent from Eagle Pass had
been swift and they had made good time over the last two days. Once out
of the mountains they had allowed their horses full rein and galloped
swiftly over the many miles, glad to be lost in a blur of meadows and
woodlands.

In Tiranoc, as in all of the Outer Kingdoms, the weather was colder than
that of the inner realms, being more exposed to the sea winds than those
lands within the circle of the Annulii. Still, the sun had been warm
enough to make the ride pleasant for Aerenis and Carathril, and in each
other’s company they had passed many miles in constant yet trivial
conversation.

Ahead, no more than two leagues distant, the city of Tor Anroc rose from
upon a white-stoned hill, bathed in the setting sun. About the foothills
of the mount clustered white buildings roofed with red tiles, nestled
amongst freshly tilled fields, and thin smoke drifted from the farm
chimneys. Orange and pink in the dusk light, the foundations of Tor
Anroc towered above the plain, and two great roads curved away to the
left and right, spiralling around the hilltop to the summit.

From high walls, the blue and yellow flags of Tiranoc hung limply on
their banner poles, barely stirred by the still evening air. Towers and
citadels carved from the white rock broke above the curving
crenellations of the curtain wall, but these in turn were dwarfed by a
central spire that pierced the twilight like a shining needle.

Heartened by the closeness of their destination, Carathril and Aerenis
guided their steeds into a gentle trot and forged through the wild
meadows; before long they came upon a roadway, flagged with hexagonal
red tiles, which cut straight as an arrow towards the city.

Ahead lay walled orchards, where rows of apple and cherry trees clung
stubbornly to their golden and red leaves. The harvest had passed and
the fields were quiet, peacefully descending into their winter sleep
behind hedges of callow flower and kingwood. They had left behind the
livestock pastures in the foothills, where shepherds and goatherds had
been moving their flocks down from the higher slopes. Soon the droving
would begin and the herds would be brought to the markets of the towns
surrounding Tor Anroc, and eventually to the capital itself.

The proximity of the city changed the landscape, just as a great tree
might dominate a patch of woods or an island break the flow of a river.
Here the farms were protected by high walls of white stone, and stood
along the road behind gates of silver and gold.

Further back, away from the turnpike and reached only by meandering
trails across the fields, stood tall mansions with many-roofed halls and
slender towers. Here the nobles of Tiranoc lived in the summer, away
from the city. Now only a handful trailed grey smoke from their
chimneys; most of Tiranoc’s princes had retired back to their city homes
to the warmth of open fires, the excitement of winter balls and the
intrigue of court life in Tor Anroc. Their horses’ hooves clattering on
the road, the riders made good speed and the sun was still loitering in
the western sky as they rode into the shadow of the high rock of the
city.

A great gatehouse barred the road, a bastion upon a wall twice the
height of an elf that arched backwards into the mount itself, all carved
from the naked rock. Two pale towers flanked the roadway, devoid of
openings except for high arrow slits that looked upon every approach. On
each of the flat tower tops stood a bolt thrower, mounted upon an
assembly of bars and thin ropes so that that they could be swung with
ease in any direction.

The golden gate of Tor Anroc lay open, but passage was barred by two
chariots, stood side-by-side. Their fronts were carved in the likenesses
of eagles and golden wings swept back to form their sides. Two pale grey
horses stood motionless in front of each, bound by black leather
harnesses; upon the back of each chariot stood two stern warriors, one
with a long silvered spear, the other with bow bent and arrow nocked.
The sentries watched cautiously as Carathril and Aerenis slowed their
mounts to a walk and approached, hands held out from their sides.

‘Who approaches Tor Anroc, city of Tiranoc, seat of the Phoenix King?’
the spearman on the left called out.

‘Captain Carathril of Lothern, bearing missives for his majesty Bel
Shanaar,’ Aerenis replied as the two halted a dozen paces from the
gateway. ‘And I, his aide, Aerenis, lieutenant of Lothern.’

‘Come, Firuthal, why such caution?’ Carathril called out as he
dismounted. The spearman stepped down from the back of his chariot and
approached; his face was grim.

‘It is not for me to say, friend,’ Firuthal said, extending a hand in
greeting, which Carathril gripped firmly. ‘The guard is doubled on the
orders of Bel Shanaar. We are told to patrol the roads and borders, to
keep watch for strangers. It is not my place to question our commands.’

‘But I am no stranger,’ Carathril said, turning and waving Aerenis to
join him. ‘I bring important news for the Phoenix King, and then perhaps
when your watch is complete we can share a jug of wine and speak more
freely.’

Firuthal nodded but still did not smile.

‘Perhaps,’ the charioteer said. ‘My watch finishes at midnight; I shall
come to find you at the palace.’

‘Be sure that you do,’ Carathril said, pulling himself back into his
saddle with a jingle of harness.

Firuthal quickly trotted back to his chariot and nimbly leapt aboard.
With a word, he urged the horses forwards and guided them past Carathril
and Aerenis.

‘Go quickly, I will send word to the Phoenix King that you are here,’
Firuthal told them as he passed, with a glance over his shoulder towards
the rising pinnacle of the palace tower. ‘He will be eager to hear your
messages.’

With a wave, Carathril rode on under the gateway, Aerenis following
closely. Beyond, the road split into two and they took the left fork,
climbing the hill along its southern slope. The screech of a bird
attracted their attention and they looked up to see a hawk racing
towards the tower of Tor Anroc: Firuthal’s message. As they rode higher,
the plains and meadows were laid out around them, stretching from
mountain to coast and ruddy in the swiftly falling twilight. Soon low
buildings enclosed the road and they were swallowed up by the outskirts
of Tor Anroc.

The clatter of pots and the scent of cooking reminded Carathril that it
had been some hours since they had eaten, and he hoped that he could
swiftly conclude his business with Bel Shanaar and seek a hostelry.

He noted immediately the quiet and calm of Tiranoc. As they passed under
a second gateway, through the curtain wall and into the city proper, he
noted the lack of people on the streets. Within the city, the road
continued its same swirling ascent, curling tighter and tighter about
the hilltop, the buildings growing taller with each loop until they
passed over the road itself and the pair found themselves riding through
a long, lantern-lit tunnel. For a short while, they rode in twinkling
lamplight, the jangling of the horses’ harnesses and the clipping of
their hooves echoing from walls occasionally pierced with high, thin
windows and narrow doors.

Frescoes broke the monotony of the white walls, painted in vivid
colours, showing harvest scenes and chariot races, deer hunts and
marketplaces. Alleys and side streets broke the all-enclosing shaft, but
these too offered no view of the sky. The city was now carved out of the
stone of the mount, every room, window and door fashioned by masons from
the heartrock of the hill. Having been raised in the open avenues of
Lothern, Carathril felt a little unnerved and he only realised how
uncomfortable he had started to feel when they finally exited the
tunnelway out onto a broad plaza surrounding the palace.

Tiled with the same red stone as the road, the courtyard stretched for
three hundred paces and it was filled with market stalls and crowds. The
cries of stall keepers hawking their wares mixed with the hubbub of
bargaining and general conversation. Dressed in flowing robes of white
and wrapped with cowls, scarves and cloaks dyed in the same vibrant hues
as the tunnel paintings, the folk of Tor Anroc weaved between the stalls
at leisure, crossing each other’s paths in a slow, complex dance of
commerce. In the centre, the tower of the Phoenix King’s palace soared
into the darkening skies, golden light glimmering from its narrow
windows.

‘This way,’ Carathril said, pointing to the left. A road was kept clear
to the doors of the tower, and here a company of charioteers stood
guard, fifty of them arrayed in two lines that flanked the approach to
the palace.

None attempted to bar their arrival, and a retainer came forwards to
take the reins of their horses as they dismounted outside the palace
gate. The high wooden doors opened before them, showing a vaulted
entrance hall lit by gold lanterns. At the far end, a marble stairway
spiralled out of sight. A deep red carpet stretched along the hallway
and up the stair, and Carathril self-consciously lifted up the hem of
his cloak, covered as it was with the grime of many days’ travel.

An elf swathed in a flowing robe of blue embroidered in gold with
flowing birds came into view, walking swiftly down the stairs.

‘Captain Carathril, I am Palthrain, chamberlain to his majesty,’ the elf
introduced himself with a deferential nod as they met at the bottom of
the stairs. His cheeks were sharply angled and his wide eyes dark under
a shock of black hair. His movements were measured and precise as he
gestured for them to accompany him.

He spoke as he led them swiftly up the steps, his eyes fixed on
Carathril’s as he did so.

‘His majesty is most keen to hear of events in Lothern,’ said Palthrain.
‘It has been many weeks since we have heard word from Prince Aeltherin,
or any of his court, for that matter.’

Carathril hesitated a moment, casting a glance at Aerenis.

‘Rest assured, captain, that whatever you tell the Phoenix King I shall
know immediately,’ said Palthrain.

‘Our news will not bring any joy, I am afraid,’ said the captain.

Palthrain took this with no more reaction than an understanding nod,
though his eyes never left Carathril’s.

They passed several landings during their ascent: wide archways leading
from the stairs to the hallways and galleries that made up the greater
part of the palace. On the fourth level, Palthrain turned them aside and
ushered them through the arch into a wide indoor amphitheatre. Wooden
benches, empty for the moment, surrounded a central circular floor. At
the far end of the hall, in the gap made by the horseshoe of seats, the
Phoenix King sat upon a high-backed golden throne; about him stood
several other elves of regal disposition.

As they approached, they saw that Bel Shanaar was deep in conversation,
his gaze not once straying to the new arrivals. He was dressed in his
formal robes of office: layers of white and gold, delicately embroidered
with silver swirls and runes. From his shoulders hung a long cloak of
white feathers, which draped over the arms of his throne, hemmed with a
band of golden thread and sapphires. His face was faintly lined, the
only sign of old age any elf endured, and a golden band studded with a
single emerald swept back his pale blond hair, showing a forehead
creased with a frown. His eyes were bright blue, and he pursed thin lips
as he listened intently to the words of his counsellors.

‘His majesty, Bel Shanaar, Phoenix King of Ulthuan,’ Palthrain whispered
reverentially as they crossed the lacquered wooden floor.

He waved his hand gently towards a short, young elf to the Phoenix
King’s left, who stood with his arms crossed, his expression one of
displeasure.

‘Elodhir, son of the Phoenix King, heir to the throne of Tiranoc,’ said
the chamberlain. The family resemblance was clear.

On the other side stood a tall, broad elf dressed in a long sweep of
gilded scale armour, bound with a thick black belt, a sword hanging from
his hip.

‘Imrik of Caledor, son of Menieth,’ Palthrain said. ‘He is the grandson
of that great mage, Caledor Dragontamer.’

‘All know of Imrik,’ said Carathril, thrilled to see such a legendary
warrior in the flesh.

‘The third and last of the Phoenix King’s advisors is Thyriol,’ said
Palthrain. ‘He is one of the most powerful mage-princes, ruler of
Saphery.’

Thyriol’s silver hair hung to his waist in three long tresses bound with
strips of black leather. He wore multi-layered robes of white and
yellows, which constantly shimmered as he fidgeted from foot to foot.

‘Thyriol who presided over the First Council?’ asked Aerenis, awe in his
voice.

‘The same,’ said Palthrain. His voice rose in volume. ‘Captain Carathril
of Lothern, your majesty.’

‘Thank you, Palthrain,’ Bel Shanaar said, still not looking at them.

The chamberlain bowed and left without further word. Carathril and
Aerenis were left standing on their own, listening to the discussion.

‘We cannot show mercy,’ said Imrik with a shake of his head. ‘The people
need our strength.’

‘But many of them are victims as much as they are perpetrators,’
cautioned Bel Shanaar. ‘They are brought low by their own terrors, and
the priests and priestesses play on their fears and manipulate their
woes. I have spoken with some who claim that they did not realise how
debased they had become. There is dark magic in this, some more evil
purpose that we have not yet seen.’

‘Then we must find their ringleaders and question them,’ suggested
Elodhir. The prince took a pace towards his father. ‘We cannot simply
allow the cults to spread unchecked. If we should allow that to happen,
our armies will be eaten away by this menace, our people consumed by
their own desires. No! Though it is perhaps a harsh judgement on some,
we must prosecute your rule with firm determination and relentless
purpose.’

‘That is all well and good, Elodhir, but against whom must we prosecute
it?’ asked Thyriol. As always, Thyriol’s words were quiet and
meaningful.

As he carefully considered his next words, the elf lord ran thin fingers
through his silver hair. His deep green eyes fixed on each of his
fellows in turn. ‘We all know its root, yet there is not one of us
speaks its name. Nagarythe. There, I have said it and yet the world
still turns.’

‘Tales and rumour are no basis for policy,’ replied Bel Shanaar.
‘Perhaps our guests bring tidings that will aid our discussions.’

Carathril stood dumbly for a moment, taken aback by his sudden inclusion
in the conversation. The Phoenix King and three princes looked at him
with inquiring eyes, and the guard captain cleared his throat and
gathered his thoughts.

‘I bear ill tidings, your majesty,’ Carathril said quietly. ‘I and my
companion have ridden hither with all haste to bring you the news that
Prince Aeltherin of Lothern is dead.’

A scowl crossed the face of Imrik, while the others present bowed their
heads for a moment.

‘It is our misfortune that the great prince fell from grace, your
majesty,’ continued Carathril. ‘I know not how, but Prince Aeltherin
became a member of the pleasure cults. For how long, we do not know. It
appears that for some time the prince was in league with the dark
priestesses of Atharti, and from his position misdirected our efforts to
uncover the plots of the cult. Only a chance happening, a name whispered
by a prisoner in her sleep, started us on a sinister path that led to
the doors of the prince’s manse itself.’

‘And how is it that Prince Aeltherin does not stand here to defend
himself against these accusations?’ asked Elodhir. ‘Why is he not in
your custody?’

‘He took his own life, highness,’ explained Carathril. ‘I endeavoured to
reason with him, implored the prince to put his case before this court,
but he was gripped with a madness and would not consent. I know not what
caused him to act in this way, and I would not dare to speculate.’

‘A ruling prince party to these covens of evil?’ muttered Thyriol,
turning to the Phoenix King. ‘Matters are even graver than we would have
dared admit. When news of Aeltherin’s fall spreads, fear and suspicion
will follow.’

‘As is the intent of the architects of this darkness, I have no doubt,’
said Bel-Shanaar. ‘With the rulers of the realms no longer to be
trusted, to whom will our citizens turn? When they cannot trust those
with authority, the greater the dread upon the minds of our people, and
the more they will flock to the cults.’

‘And who shall we trust, if not our own?’ asked Imrik, his demeanour
dark.

‘The defection of Prince Aeltherin casts a cloud over every prince,’
said Bel Shanaar with a sorrowful shake of his head. ‘If we are to lead
the people from the temptations of the cults, we must be united. Yet how
can we act together when the doubt remains that those in whom we confide
may well be working against our interests?’

‘To allow ourselves to be divided would bring about a terrible age of
anarchy,’ warned Thyriol, who had begun to pace back and forth beside
the king’s throne. ‘The rule of the realms is fragile, and the greatest
of our leaders are beyond these shores in the colonies across the
ocean.’

‘The greatest of our leaders sits upon this throne,’ said Elodhir, his
eyes narrowing.

‘I spoke not of one individual,’ said Thyriol, raising a placating hand.
‘Yet I would wish it that Prince Malekith were here, if only to settle
the matter of his people in Nagarythe. In his absence we are reluctant
to prosecute investigations within his realm.’

‘Well, Malekith is not here, while we are,’ said Bel Shanaar sharply. He
paused for a moment, passing a hand across his forehead. ‘It matters
not. Thyriol, what is the counsel of the mages of Saphery?’

The mage-prince ceased his pacing and turned on his heel to face the
Phoenix King. He folded his arms, which disappeared within the sleeves
of his voluminous robe, and pursed his lips as if in thought.

‘You were correct to speak of dark magic, your majesty,’ Thyriol said.
‘Our divinations sense a growing weight of evil energy gathering in the
vortex. It pools within the Annulii Mountains, drawn here by the
practices of the cults. Sacrifice of an unnatural kind is feeding the
ill winds. Whether it is the purpose of the cults or simply an
unintended result of their ceremonies, we cannot say. This magic is
powerful but dangerous, and no mage will wield it.’

‘There is no means by which this dark magic can be spent safely?’ asked
Imrik.

‘The vortex dissipates some of its power, and would cleanse the winds in
due course were the dark magic not fuelled further,’ explained Thyriol.
‘Unfortunately, there is nothing we can do to hasten this, other than to
stop the cults practising their sorcery.’

‘And so we return again to our main question,’ sighed Bel Shanaar. ‘How
might we rid ourselves of these cults?’

‘Firm action,’ growled Imrik. ‘Muster the princes; send out the call to
arms. Sweep away this infestation with blade and bow.’

‘What you suggest threatens civil war,’ Thyriol cautioned.

‘To stand idle threatens equal destruction,’ said Elodhir.

‘And would you lead this army, Imrik?’ Bel Shanaar asked, turning in his
throne to stare intently at the Caledorian prince.

‘I would not,’ Imrik replied sharply. ‘Caledor yet remains free of this
taint, and I seek to maintain the peace that we have.’

‘Saphery has no generals of renown,’ said Thyriol with a shrug. ‘I think
that you will find the other realms reluctant to risk open war.’

‘Then who shall lead the hunt?’ pleaded Elodhir, his exasperation clear
in his voice.

‘Captain Carathril,’ said Bel Shanaar. Carathril started, surprised that
his presence was still remembered. He had assumed the princes had heard
all that they needed, and had been waiting for leave to be excused.

‘How might I be of service, your majesty?’ Carathril asked.

‘I dispense with your duties to the Guard of Lothern,’ said Bel Shanaar,
standing up. ‘You are loyal and trustworthy, devoted to our people and
the continuance of peace and just rule. From this moment, I appoint you
as my herald, the mouth of the Phoenix King. You will take word to the
princes of the realms. I will ask if there is one amongst them who is
willing to prosecute the destruction of these intolerable cults. This
peril that besets us is no less than the division of our people and the
destruction of our civilisation. We must stand strong, and proud, and
drive out these faithless practitioners of deceit. The gratitude of our
lands and this office will be heaped upon the prince that delivers us
from this darkness.’
