
SEVENTEEN 

The March to Ealith

As dusk settled, Carathril wandered the camp, seeking out the imprisoned
cultists, wishing to speak again to Drutheira. Yet he could not find
them and all of his inquiries were met with ignorance. The elves of
Ellyrion and Tiranoc assumed they were in the camp of Nagarythe, while
the Naggarothi curtly denied any knowledge of their whereabouts.
Reluctantly, Carathril returned to his tent, alone and disheartened.

His camp was not far from the central circle. As he ate a supper that
was of basic fare brought from Tor Anroc, for there was no hunting to be
had in these parts, he heard sounds of laughter and celebration from the
Naggarothi encampment. He heard old battle hymns written during the
times of the daemon war, lauding the greatness of Nagarythe and its
princes. As he washed down a meal of crisp bread and soft cheese with
water from his canteen, a messenger arrived from Malekith to take him to
the prince’s war council.

As the guards waved him inside, he ducked beneath the canopy of the
pavilion and found himself standing upon thick red carpets laid upon the
bare earth. The tent was high and golden lanterns hung from chains
around the cloth ceiling, bathing all in a yellow glow. Warmth filled
the pavilion from a dozen glowing braziers that gave off no smoke, and
the air was filled with excited chatter.

Retainers clad in simple blue coats passed through the assembled
captains with ewers of wine. Carathril waved aside a proffered goblet
and searched the crowd for a familiar face. There were at least a dozen
elves, some dressed in the finery of the Anlec knights; a couple from
Tiranoc wore blue and white sashes across their armour, as did
Carathril; a trio of elves on the far side of the pavilion wore cloaks
of deep red and Carathril recognised them as the leaders of the Ellyrian
reavers.

He spied Malekith’s second-in-command, Yeasir, talking to the Ellyrians,
and Carathril cut his way towards them through the scattered clusters of
elven warriors, repeatedly turning down more offers of wine.

‘Friend Carathril!’ Yeasir called out as he approached. He waved a hand
at each of the Ellyrians in turn, as he continued. ‘Do you know
Gariedyn, Aneltain and Bellaenoth?’

‘Not by name,’ said Carathril with a nod of greeting.

‘I have hoped to speak with you, herald,’ said the elf identified as
Aneltain. ‘But you spend so much time closeted with Prince Malekith, I
have not had the opportunity. It must be good to have the ear of a
prince.’

‘I would not say that I have the prince’s ear,’ replied Carathril,
somewhat taken aback. ‘Though I do enjoy Prince Malekith’s company.’

‘And he yours, I would say,’ said Yeasir. ‘I have barely exchanged five
words with him this past week.’

‘It was not my intent to monopolise the prince…’ began Carathril, but
Gariedyn waved away his protestations.

‘Do not apologise,’ said the Ellyrian captain. ‘We are just jealous,
that is all. I am sure that if any of us had been chosen as Bel
Shanaar’s herald we would enjoy similar attention.’

‘So, what does the prince have in mind, then?’ asked Bellaenoth. ‘Who
will he choose to lead the attack on Ealith?’

‘The knights of Anlec will have that honour, I am sure,’ said Yeasir. He
thrust his empty goblet towards one of the waiting servants and had it
quickly refilled. Swallowing a mouthful, he continued. ‘Ealith belongs
to Nagarythe, after all, and it would not do for us to be seen skulking
at the back like some timid Yvressians.’

‘For my part, I would gladly give you the honour,’ said Bellaenoth with
a sorrowful shake of the head. ‘By all accounts, it is a fearsome
stronghold. I would not like to be first in line when we come up against
its high walls.’

‘That is because you do not know Malekith,’ Yeasir assured them. ‘He is
as brave as a Chracian lion, and as strong as a Caledorian dragon. But,
most importantly, he is also as cunning as a Sapherian fox. He would not
throw us against such daunting fortifications with no plan. No, I am
sure that our noble prince has a scheme for rooting out these
troublesome cultists without us having to dash ourselves needlessly
against the walls of Ealith.’

‘Perhaps the good herald has some insight into this clever ploy?’
suggested Gariedyn, and all eyes turned to Carathril.

‘Me?’ he stammered. ‘I am not privy to the counsels of Prince Malekith,
much as you may seem to think otherwise.’

Their expressions remained unconvinced.

‘Besides,’ Carathril added, ‘it would not be my place to announce such
matters when the prince has chosen not to do so. As a herald, my
discretion is paramount.’

‘So, you do know something,’ said Bellaenoth. Something caught his gaze
past Carathril’s shoulder and Bellaenoth nodded towards the pavilion’s
entrance. ‘Well, we may find out soon enough anyway.’

Malekith strode into the pavilion, swept up a goblet from the tray of a
nearby attendant and downed its contents in a long draught. As he placed
the goblet back upon the golden tray, his eyes swept the room, lingering
on no one person for any length of time.

‘My noble captains,’ he said, glad that he had their attention
immediately. ‘My trusted companions. I must beg your forgiveness for an
unavoidable act of perfidy. In these troubled times it is hard to judge
who one can trust, and so I judge to trust no one. At least, I must say,
I did not trust anyone until now. I could not be sure that the spies of
our enemies were not within my camp, and so I have been forced to
mislead you all.’

A startled murmur crept around the room, and then died away as the
prince continued.

‘I have known since I left Tor Anroc that Ealith was held by our foes,’
Malekith revealed, pacing further into the pavilion. ‘I did not want our
enemies to be aware of this knowledge, and so I have kept secret counsel
with only the raven heralds, whom I would trust with not only my life,
but my realm. As I had hoped, it appears that our foes are confident in
their position, knowing that we have not marched forth prepared for
siege. To their minds, we must labour to make towers and rams to attack
their fortress, and await reinforcements and bolt throwers in order to
assault their walls. They believe that they have time aplenty to shore
up their defences, and for more of their numbers to gather. Secret
covens lurk within the forests and hills around Ealith, ready to sally
forth to attack our siege works, ambush our supplies and harass our
forces. They are wrong.’

The whispering recommenced, this time excited and intrigued. Two
servants brought forth a chair of deep red wood, its high back carved
with the likeness of a mighty dragon encircling a slender tower, the
throne’s arms and legs fashioned as the be-scaled and clawed limbs of
the drake. Malekith unclasped his black cloak and cast it upon the
throne, but did not sit. He turned to face the assembled captains, his
eyes narrowed.

‘Knowing the deceit upon which our enemies thrive, I have spread false
rumour through their minions,’ the prince told them. ‘Two of our
prisoners have escaped upon stolen horses, bearing news to Ealith
overheard from the incautious lips of our warriors. News that we march
to Enith Atruth, two days to the west, and another two days’ ride from
Ealith. The citadel itself lies no more than a day’s ride to the north,
and our escaped captives will have reached its walls before midday
tomorrow. Confident that we tarry in our attack, they will not be ready
for our strike. By dusk, Ealith will be ours.’

‘Excuse me, highness, but an army does not move as swiftly as a solitary
rider,’ said one of the Ellyrians. ‘Even if we could reach Ealith within
the day, it would be impossible to conceal our approach.’

‘That is true, Arthenreir,’ replied the prince, enjoying his theatrical
performance. ‘It matters not whether we come to Ealith in a day or a
hundred days, we have not the strength of arms to force victory through
open battle. And it would not be desirable even if it were so, for I
wish there to be as little bloodshed as possible on both sides. Guile
shall see our fortunes ripen where might alone proves fruitless.’

‘I told you,’ whispered Yeasir with a smile. Carathril ignored him and
listened intently as Malekith continued.

‘Our enemies think Ealith secure against attack, but they are wrong. For
many centuries the citadel has been abandoned, and its secrets have been
forgotten by most. Not by me, nor the raven heralds. Ealith sits upon a
spur of rock, reached only by a single causeway that is overlooked by
towers and walls. Or so it would seem to our foes.’

Malekith now dropped his voice to a whisper, and met the gazes of those
elves closest at hand, as if confiding in each of them alone.

‘In fact, there is another entrance to Ealith,’ said the prince. ‘There
is a passage, carved from the rock itself, which leads from the citadel
to the outside. It was built as a means for defenders to sally forth to
attack a besieging army from the rear, and leads to a hidden cave more
than half a mile from the walls. We shall ride before daybreak, a
company of no more than a hundred, and under cover of darkness enter
this ancient passageway. It will take us into the heart of the enemy,
where we will strike with absolute surprise. The army will march in our
wake and there will be no escape. We shall slay or capture their leaders
and force the rest to surrender. Without the puppeteers to pull their
strings, our enemies are cowardly, decadent hedonists with no stomach
for battle.’

‘Who is to ride, highness?’ asked Yeasir.

‘The company shall be split thus: forty of Nagarythe, thirty of
Ellyrion, and thirty of Tiranoc’s finest riders. No more can we
guarantee to approach Ealith unseen, and our strength lies in speed and
stealth, not numbers.’

Malekith noticed disappointment well up on the face of Carathril. The
Lothern captain was an average rider at best, trained to fight with
spear and sword, not with lance and horse. However, he was the herald of
the Phoenix King and potentially a useful ally. Malekith raised a hand
to attract Carathril’s attention and smiled.

‘My noble comrade Carathril, you will ride with us, as an honorary
knight of Nagarythe. I would not have such a fine heart and sure arm
left behind on this adventure!’

‘You have my eternal gratitude, highness,’ said Carathril with a deep
bow. ‘It will be my honour to ride amongst such noble companions.’

Once the assembled warriors had departed, Malekith sat on his throne. A
few moments later, Yeasir led in a small group of elves covered with
dark robes. As they pulled back their hoods, Malekith saw that they were
the cultists who had surrendered to him.

The prince of Nagarythe smiled. He had more work for them to do.

Darkness still swathed the camp as Malekith set forth with his riders;
the sun was hidden behind the mountains and would be for some time to
come. Before they had left, the company had assembled on the outskirts
of the encampment and three shadow-swathed raven heralds had passed
along their line, blackening harnesses and securing loose tack so that
no glint or jingle would give them away. They had handed out long, black
cloaks for the riders to wear over their armour, and thus concealed,
Malekith’s expedition had departed in silence and secrecy.

Now the hundred horsemen followed one of the raven heralds along a
winding path northwards, heading down the ridge upon which the army had
spent the night. They rode swiftly but not recklessly, and Malekith was
glad of the sure-footedness of his mount. Late stars glimmered overhead
in the pre-dusk grey, visible now that they had left behind the smoke of
the camp. The thudding of hooves in the dirt was the only sound to break
the still, and Malekith began to relax, calmed by the steady drumming.

As dawn slowly broke above the mountains, Malekith found that they were
riding along an overgrown herder’s trail through an expanse of low hills
that rose up under the long shadow of the mountains. Their path was
criss-crossed with rivulets and streams and the soil was more fertile,
giving rise to stands of low bushes and thick clumps of sturdy grasses.

They slowed to negotiate this trickier ground, and at points rode in
single file to follow in the tracks of the raven herald who led the way.
The second rode sentry at the rear, and of the third there was no sign:
he had departed in darkness to scout the way ahead.

They halted briefly mid-morning to ease tired limbs and make a hasty
breakfast of bread and cold meats, before riding on. By this time, they
had cleared the foothills once more and had made good progress across
the rocky moors. Between the heat of the sun high in a clear sky, the
thin yet warm cloak wrapped tightly about him and the effort of riding,
Malekith did not feel the chill touch of autumn, though the breath of
the riders and their steeds steamed in the air.

They saw not a soul as they rode, although here and there they passed
tumbled-down remains of ancient cottages and towers, scattered across
the landscape as if discarded by the hand of some god. There was no road
to follow, not the slightest track nor path, and it was clear that these
lands had long ago been abandoned. They paused once again in the middle
of the afternoon, allowing their mounts to water from a swift-moving
brook. A few scattered stones marked the remains of an ancient mill
beside the waterway; of its wheel and gears, nothing remained.

Carathril’s gaze was drawn to a lone hill, not far from the stream,
which rose steeply from the yellowing grass: a mound of bare, blackened
rock. At its summit, Carathril could just about see a tumbled monolith,
its white stone stark against the darkness of the hillock.

‘Elthuir Tarai,’ whispered a deep voice, causing him to start. One of
the raven heralds stood directly behind him. His black horse stood close
by, neither grazing nor resting, but alert and ready. The rider’s face
was all but hidden in the shadow of his deep hood, but Carathril could
see a pair of emerald green eyes. It was Elthyrior.

‘What did you say?’ said Carathril.

‘Yonder hill,’ said the raven herald, pointing towards the barren knoll.
‘It is the Elthuir Tarai, where Aenarion first wielded the Godslayer in
battle. A thousand years ago, there was a town here, called Tir Anfirec,
and all the lands about were farms and meadows. The daemons came and
unleashed foul sorcery upon the ground, and their curse lingers here
still. Upon that mount, Aenarion first drew the Sword of Khaine in
anger, and struck down a host of the daemons. I am grandson to
Menrethor, who fought here beside the king.’

‘Then you are a prince?’ said Carathril.

‘In name only,’ said Elthyrior, looking away. ‘These were once the lands
of my family, now they belong to nobody.’

‘What happened to the town?’ asked Carathril.

‘It is said that the unnatural blood of the daemons seeped into the
earth and poisoned it. The filth of their existence stained the fields
and rivers, and Tir Anfirec withered and died like a plant without
water. Dark magic saturated every granule, root and leaf, so that cattle
died of fever, babes were stillborn and no living thing could flourish.
Caledor came to this place and erected a lodestone, even as he planned
his creation of the vortex. The waystone, like all the others, siphoned
away the dark energy of the daemons, and over the centuries life slowly
returned. Not enough for people to return, but sufficient for a few
blades of grass and the odd insect nest. Then, perhaps fifty years ago,
worshippers of the darkness came here and toppled the stone and undid
its enchantments. Now the dark magic is returning, gathering again.’

‘Why not raise up the stone again?’ said Carathril.

‘None in Nagarythe have the knowledge or means,’ said Elthyrior. ‘At
least, none with the will or desire to do so. Perhaps there are
loremasters in Saphery that have understanding of such things, and when
peace prevails once more, they can restore the waystone. I fear that no
living thing shall ever grow again upon Elthuir Tarai, for it was upon
that slope that Aenarion sealed his pact with Khaine, and the God of
Blood will share it with no other.’

Malekith was calling for the riders to mount up once more. With no
further word, Elthyrior leapt into his saddle and his horse quickly
wheeled away, leaving Carathril alone with his thoughts. He looked again
upon that desolate hill and shuddered, pushing from his mind the
frightening images the raven herald’s tale had conjured.

As they went further north, the lands became more welcoming, now covered
here and there with high yellow grass that reached to the riders’ knees
as they rode. In the full light of day, this dreary heath was more
cheering than the dark wilds they had passed through, and the mood of
the company lightened considerably. There were scattered conversations
along the column, and here and there the riders even joked and laughed,
as if to ward away the apprehension that had grown.

Carathril found himself riding alongside the squadron of Ellyrian reaver
knights, beside Aneltain who had been chosen by Malekith to lead them.
They were more lightly armoured than the knights of Anlec, wearing only
breastplates and shoulder guards and trusting in their speed and agility
to avoid the foe. Their high helms were crested with long feathers taken
from the tails of colourful birds. The Ellyrion steeds were uniformly
white, not as broad nor tall as the Naggarothi mounts, and were
harnessed with blue-lacquered tack. Each reaver knight carried a short
thrusting spear with a broad, leaf-shaped head, and a small but powerful
bow, with arrows fletched with blue feathers.

Of all the assembled elves, they were the most garrulous, and chatted
freely amongst themselves as they rode. Aneltain was no different and
quickly struck up conversation with Carathril.

They talked at first about their homelands, as warriors from different
realms naturally do: compared the beauty of their women, the quality of
wine and the relative merits of their people. Soon their talk moved on
to their current surrounds, as both were strangers in these lands, and
then onto the Naggarothi themselves.

‘They are taciturn, that is for certain,’ said Aneltain. ‘Of course, by
Ellyrian measure, all other elves are tight-lipped, but these Naggarothi
will utter only a single word when ten would be natural, and nothing
when one would suffice.’

‘Prince Malekith seems eloquent enough,’ countered Carathril.

‘The prince? Sure, he can weave a speech with the best of them,’
admitted the Ellyrian. ‘But then, he has been Bel Shanaar’s ambassador
to the High King of the dwarfs, and from what I hear they are a race not
known for their wagging tongues. I suspect he’s spent the last two
hundred years having to talk just to fill their silence. No, there’s
something different about these Naggarothi, some shadow upon their
spirit that makes me feel uneasy.’

‘You distrust them?’ said Carathril, his voice dropping to a whisper as
he glanced at the knights of Anlec only a short distance ahead.

‘That is too strong a word for it,’ replied Aneltain. ‘I would gladly
fight beside them, and I would trust them to watch my back. No, they
just make me feel uneasy. There is a grimness about their mood that
disturbs me. They don’t laugh enough for my liking, and when they do it
is with dark humour.’

‘It is impossible to understand them, I admit,’ said Carathril. ‘We
cannot hope to think what drives such folk. They are people of Aenarion.
Many of them, like the prince, fought at his side. Even those too young
to have been raised in those benighted times were raised by parents that
were. Perhaps they are right not to laugh, for they have much still to
grieve for. They suffered more than most, and their scars run deep.’

‘Laughter cures all ills,’ said Aneltain. ‘It lifts the spirits and
banishes dread.’

‘I fear there are some ills too heavy to be lifted,’ said Carathril. ‘I
for one am glad that I ride beside them and not against them. A great
many of them quit these shores for the new colonies, driven by the need
for battle, keen to escape the peace. I cannot understand the mind of
one who seeks such peril, but it is the way of the Naggarothi to hail
the warrior above other callings. I have no doubt that each one of those
riders ahead has drawn more blood across the seas than either of us will
do in our lifetimes.’

‘That is for sure, and it makes them no less disconcerting,’ said
Aneltain. ‘I have heard that in Anlec they still practise the rites set
down by Aenarion: that a spear and sword are forged upon the birth of
every child and they are presented to them upon their twentieth year.
They learn the names of their weapons before those of their parents, and
for their first years sleep upon the inside of a shield as a crib. But,
as you say, it is better that we ride to battle with them than against
them.’

Having come to this agreement, they then descended into a debate
concerning the unique customs of their own homes, and the afternoon
passed swiftly.

The leagues swept past as they rode ever northwards, and the sun was
fast dipping towards the west when Malekith called them to halt once
more. The company gathered in a circle about their leader. None of the
raven ­heralds were to be seen.

‘Night comes quickly, and we must be ready,’ the prince announced. ‘We
are yet out of sight of Ealith, and the raven heralds clear a path
through the pickets of the foe so that we might pass. Once they return
and bring word that all is well, we ride with all speed. Sariour rises
above the mountains before midnight and we must be within the passageway
before she spills her celestial light upon us. We cannot know what
awaits us inside, and once we move on, I cannot give you clearer orders,
for we must move as silently as ghosts.’

Malekith turned about on the spot, meeting the gazes of his company with
a fierce stare.

‘I have but these words for you,’ he said. ‘Spare those that surrender,
spare not those that resist. I cannot say what horrors we might face,
what depravities these cultists have already performed within the walls
of their fortress. Let nothing distract you. Guard your fellows and they
will guard you. Look to your swords for guidance, for though we are
merciful I would have none of us fall this night. Pray to Asuryan, offer
thanks to Isha, but remember to save a word for Khaine, for it is into
his crimson realm that we must ride tonight!’

With these grim words still ringing in their ears, the company waited in
silence, as the sun dropped beyond the sea and plunged them into
starlight. A wind grew steadily, blowing chill from the north, and
Malekith hugged his cloak tighter about himself. The riders checked each
other’s gear, to ensure no metal would catch the light and no rogue
piece of harness would make noise at an untimely moment.

Malekith dismounted and stretched his legs, pacing to and fro as he
waited for the order to move on. He did not linger long, for soon one of
the raven heralds returned, almost invisible in the darkness. The prince
mounted again, his legs sore from many days spent riding, and soon they
were off at a trot on the last stage of their journey.
