
ONE 

Pride of Caledor

During the darkest years of Ulthuan, the two greatest elves to have
lived were at the forefront of the war against the daemons of Chaos. The
first Phoenix King, Aenarion the Defender, was aided by Caledor
Dragontamer, and the two lords of Ulthuan held the daemon hordes at bay
for more than a century.

Caledor it was that saw the attacks of the daemons would never cease
while the wild winds of magic blew across the world. The Dragontamer
studied long and hard the mystical secrets of Chaos, gaining an insight
into the immaterial realm beyond any other mortal. Seeing that the magic
flowing into the world from the Realm of Chaos in the north sustained
the daemons, Caledor set about preparing a mighty spell that would
create a vortex of energy on Ulthuan to siphon away the winds of magic.
Many were the arguments he had with Aenarion over this course of action;
Aenarion feared rightly that the weapons and armour of the elven lords
were forged by the same magic that sustained the daemons and without it
the isle he ruled would be defenceless.

The two never came to agreement on the matter, and when Aenarion’s wife,
the Everqueen, was slain, he ignored Caledor’s counsel and sought out
the Sword of Khaine to strike down the daemon hosts. The Phoenix King
became a dark, vengeful warrior, and founded the kingdom of Nagarythe in
the north of Ulthuan, and ruled from the citadel of Anlec. The
Dragontamer quit his alliance with Aenarion and his own kingdom, named
after Caledor, turned its efforts to the creation of the magical vortex.

Though once friends, the two great elves never again wholly trusted each
other, but at the moment of greatest peril, Caledor and Aenarion both
played their part in the defeat of the daemons. Caledor began his
ultimate spell upon an isle in the waters of Ulthuan’s Inner Sea. Seeing
what the Dragon­tamer intended, the daemons threw their armies at
Caledor and his mages. Aenarion came to Caledor’s aid and held back the
legions of Chaos to give the mages time to complete their incantations.

Both were to sacrifice themselves. Though victorious, Aenarion and his
dragon, Indraugnir, were grievously wounded in the battle. True to the
oaths he had made, Aenarion flew north to the Blighted Isle to return
the Sword of Khaine to its black altar; neither king nor dragon were
seen again. Caledor and his followers became trapped within the eye of
the vortex, frozen in time by the spell, doomed to an endless existence
as conduits for the magical energy.

Thus the lands of Caledor and Aenarion were left without their rulers;
Caledor in the mountains of the south, Nagarythe in the bleak north. The
distrust that existed between the two kingdoms did not end with the
deaths of their founders, but grew greater. The successors of the elven
lords would not surrender power to each other and each claimed credit
for the victory over the daemons.

When Aenarion’s son, Malekith, desired to inherit his father’s position
as Phoenix King, the princes of Caledor resisted. They reminded the
elves of the other realms that Malekith had been raised in a place of
darkness and despair, and that the Dragontamer had prophesied that the
descendants of Aenarion would be forever tainted by the curse of
Bloody-Handed Khaine.

The First Council of princes chose Bel Shanaar of Tiranoc to be Phoenix
King, thus ensuring neither Caledor nor Nagarythe would hold the
greatest power in Ulthuan. Malekith accepted this decision with dignity
and the Caledorians likewise endorsed the choice of Bel Shanaar.

Under the reign of this new Phoenix King the elves rebuilt their cities
and explored the world. Colonies were founded across the oceans, and the
influence of the elven kingdoms spread far and wide. Always wary of each
other’s status and power, Nagarythe and Caledor continued their rivalry
for centuries and though peace existed between the two kingdoms, their
distrust of each other deepened, the princes of each accusing the other
of being jealous, arrogant and self-serving.

So it was with some annoyance, and a little trepidation, that Prince
Imrik of Caledor heard the news that Naggarothi banners had been seen
approaching his camp. The general of Caledor’s armies in Elthin Arvan,
the lands east of the Great Ocean, Imrik was grandson to the
Dragontamer, younger brother of the kingdom’s ruling prince, Caledrian.

The arrival of the Naggarothi was untimely. Imrik and his warriors had
spent twelve days pursuing a horde of savage orcs and goblins through
the wild lands in the south of Elthin Arvan, and that day would bring
their foes to battle.

‘The Naggarothi seek to steal our glory,’ Imrik said to his companions,
his youngest brother Dorien and cousin Thyrinor.

The three sat in Imrik’s pavilion, already in their armour of golden
plates and silver scale. The herald who had brought the news of the
Naggarothi arrival waited nervously for his general’s command.

‘They believe they can take a victory here and claim these lands for
themselves,’ said Dorien. ‘Send them away with a warning that they
trespass on Caledorian soil.’

Thyrinor shifted uncomfortably in his seat and raised a hand to Dorien
to ask for his peace.

‘It would not be wise to provoke them,’ said Thyrinor. He turned to the
messenger. ‘How many do you say they are?’

‘Twelve thousand, my prince,’ replied the herald. ‘Of which four
thousand are knights. We counted them as they forded the Laithenn
River.’

‘They’ll be here well before noon,’ said Imrik. ‘They marched all
night.’

‘We should ready our army and attack the orcs before the Naggarothi get
here,’ said Dorien, standing up. ‘They cannot claim credit for a battle
that was finished before they arrived.’

‘Not yet,’ said Imrik. ‘I will not be forced into hasty battle.’

‘So what would you have us do?’ said Dorien. ‘Share the glory with those
cold-blooded killers?’

‘We’ll prove ourselves greater,’ said Imrik. He signalled for the herald
to approach. ‘Ride out to the Naggarothi and tell their prince to come
to me.’

The messenger bowed and departed swiftly, leaving the three lords of
Caledor in silence. Imrik waited patiently, arms crossed, while Dorien
paced to and fro. Thyrinor moved to a table and poured himself wine
mixed with water, which he sipped with an agitated expression. After
some time, he turned on Dorien with a frown.

‘Sit down, cousin, please,’ Thyrinor said sharply. He swallowed a
mouthful of wine. ‘You prowl like a Chracian lion in a pen.’

‘I don’t like it,’ said Dorien. ‘How did the Naggarothi learn of our
pursuit, and how did they catch us so swiftly? And if my pacing vexes
you so much, feel free to step outside, cousin. Or would that be too far
away from the wine ewers for you?’

‘Stop bickering.’ Imrik’s quiet instruction stilled the pair. ‘Dorien,
sit down. Thyrinor, drink no more. Our army readies for battle while you
squabble like children. Wait.’

Dorien acquiesced and sat down, sweeping his long scarlet cloak over one
arm of his chair. Thyrinor emptied his goblet and placed it on the table
before returning to his seat.

‘How can you be so calm, cousin?’ said Thyrinor. ‘Do you expect the
Naggarothi to be our allies?’

‘No,’ said Imrik, unmoving.

‘You give them opportunity to snub us,’ Thyrinor said. He threw up his
hands. ‘Why attempt an embassy you know will not succeed, cousin?’

‘Because they would not,’ said Imrik. ‘We behave with dignity.’

‘As if the Naggarothi care about our dignity,’ Dorien said with a snort
of derision. ‘They will see it as weakness.’

‘Do you see it as weakness, brother?’ asked Imrik. His eyes fixed Dorien
with an intent stare.

‘No,’ Dorien replied, a little hesitant. ‘I know we are not weak.’

‘That is all that matters,’ said Imrik. ‘I care not for the opinions of
the Naggarothi.’

Again the elves fell quiet. Outside, the clamour and bustle of the
mustering army could be heard. Captains called out for their companies
to assemble and piercing clarions signalled the call to battle.

Imrik passed the time in contemplation of the battle to come. The
Naggarothi were an unwelcome distraction. He had not become Caledor’s
most lauded general by allowing himself to be distracted. The prince
knew his companions thought him brusque, cold-hearted even; he
considered them boisterous and hot-headed. The prince was content with
his life. The chance to prove himself in battle, to show his worth as an
heir of the Dragontamer, was enough. Even the small exchanges with his
brother and cousin left him agitated, and glad to be far from the court
of Caledrian. Here in the colonies an elf could make a name for himself
with honest endeavour, away from the personalities and politics of
Ulthuan.

It had been such constant wrangling that had driven him to Elthin Arvan.
Though descended from the line of Caledor, Imrik had little aptitude or
desire for magical ability and so had dedicated himself to mastery of
the sword and the lance, and the command of armies. He shared his
people’s distrust of the Naggarothi, but also held them in some grudging
respect; their accomplishments in war were unmatched by any other
kingdom, including his own.

In particular, he admired their ruler, Prince Malekith. Imrik would
never say as much to another elf, but the achievements of Malekith were
an example to be followed. Such admiration was shadowed by irritation
too; had Imrik not shared his lifetime with Malekith he would have been
renowned as the greatest general of Ulthuan. As it was, he was famed in
Caledor and amongst a few of the colonial cities that knew of his
exploits, but his victories and conquests were otherwise drowned out by
the accolades heaped upon the prince of Nagarythe.

Imrik curled his lip in a silent snarl, annoyed that despite his
efforts, he had allowed the Naggarothi to interrupt his pre-battle
preparations. Dorien and Thyrinor looked at their commander, alerted to
his annoyance.

‘Call the army to order,’ Imrik said, standing up.

He lifted his sword from where it leaned against the side of his chair,
and buckled its golden sheath to his belt; his ornate helm he tucked
under his arm. The hem of his cloak brushing the intricately embroidered
rugs on the floor, Imrik led the other two elves from the tent.

The air was damp and the sky overcast, a thin mist obscuring the
heathlands on which the elves had made camp. The pennants atop the
pavilions hung limply in the still air, wet from rainfall in the night.
The small town of gaily coloured tents was alive with activity as
retainers bustled to attend to the needs of the captains and knights.
Spear companies marched briskly to the mustering south-east of the
encampment, their silver armour and dark green shields dappled with
water droplets.

Imrik turned to the west and strode along a temporary causeway laid
across the grass and heather. Gilded harnesses studded with rubies and
emeralds jingled as a squadron of knights rode across the pathway ahead,
dipping their lances in salute as they passed in front of their general,
white steeds stepping briskly. Imrik raised his hand in acknowledgement.

Passing between an open-sided armoury and a store tent, the three
princes reached the dragon field. Three of the mighty beasts lazed on
the stretch of rocky grassland, expelling clouds of vapour from their
nostrils. Two were the colour of embers, with deep red scales and orange
underbellies; the third had an upper body of dark blue like twilight,
its legs and lower parts the colour of slate. All three raised massive
heads on their long necks at Imrik’s call.

‘Time for battle!’ shouted the general.

The dragons heaved themselves up with growls and snorts, yellow eyes
blinking slowly. The largest, one of the red-scaled pair, stretched out
its wings and yawned wide, fumes smoking from its gullet.

‘So soon?’ the monster said, its voice a deep rumble.

‘Are you tired, Maedrethnir?’ said Thyrinor. ‘Perhaps you wish you were
slumbering beneath the mountains of Caledor with your kin?’

‘Impudent elf,’ said the dragon. ‘Some of us must remain awake to keep
you out of trouble.’

‘Perhaps you would prefer to walk?’ suggested Thyrinor’s mount, the blue
dragon called Anaegnir. She flapped her wings twice, buffeting the
elves.

Young elves in the livery of Imrik’s household emerged from the camp,
bearing the ornate saddle-thrones and weapons of the dragon princes.
When the harnesses were fitted – an involved operation that required
much cooperation from the dragons – the three princes pulled themselves
up by ropes to the backs of their mounts. They buckled belts across
their waists, leaving their armoured legs to hang free across the necks
of the beasts. Each was handed a lance by his retainer; weapons forged
of silvery ithilmar, three times as long as an elf is tall, garlanded
with green and red pennants. The princes took up high shields and hung
them from their saddles.

When the retainers had retreated a safe distance, Imrik leaned forwards
along Maedrethnir’s neck and rubbed a hand along his scales.

‘South-east, to the army,’ said the general.

Maedrethnir launched into the air, the grass flattened beneath the
thunderous flapping of his wings. The other two dragons followed
swiftly, and all three princes circled higher and higher above the camp.

The altitude granted Imrik an impressive view of his army assembling.
Two thousand knights drew up in squadrons a hundred strong, their
banners and pennants rippling as they trotted across the wild heath. To
their left, the spear companies formed; blocks of five hundred warriors,
nine in all, ranked ten deep behind their standards. Twenty wagons
formed a column behind the spearmen, each drawn by four horses and
bearing two bolt throwers and their crews. Archers, some three thousand
more elves, waited in companies beside the spearmen.

In green and red and silver, the elven host stretched across the dark
moorlands. Turning his gaze to the south-east, Imrik could make out the
distant curve of a river, rushing down from the high mountains jutting
above the horizon. From above it was easy to see the route taken by the
orcs; a swathe of trampled grass and bushes that meandered towards the
river. The smoke of hundreds of fires obscured the wide waters much
farther to the south where the greenskins had made their camp.

As Maedrethnir tilted a wing and dipped towards the army, Imrik heard a
distant shout. Looking over his shoulder, he saw Dorien waving his lance
to attract attention. When he saw that Imrik was watching, he pointed
the lance tip to the west. Imrik told Maedrethnir to turn to the right
so he could see what had attracted Dorien’s attention.

A column of black and purple wound alongside a narrow stream: the
Naggarothi. Their armour glittered with gold, their knights in the
vanguard setting a swift pace while the infantry followed as quickly as
possible. Imrik spied something else, a shape above the army of
Nagarythe.

‘What is that flying above the Naggarothi?’ he asked.

Maedrethnir turned his head to look, gliding effortlessly in a slow arc
towards the other elven host.

‘A griffon and rider,’ said the dragon, with some distaste. ‘Shall we
teach them not to intrude upon our skies?’

‘Take me to them,’ said Imrik.

Beating his wings, Maedrethnir soared higher and turned towards the
Naggarothi. Looking back, Imrik saw Dorien and Thyrinor following. With
his lance, the general signalled for the other two princes to join the
army. Thyrinor took the instruction immediately and turned away; Dorien
did so only reluctantly.

As they flew towards the Naggarothi, Maedrethnir dipped his long head
towards the ground.

‘A rider,’ he said.

Imrik looked and saw a lone elf on a white steed, galloping back towards
the Caledorian camp.

‘Take us down to him,’ said Imrik. ‘Let’s hear the Naggarothi reply.’

The rider reined in his steed as the dragon and prince descended
steeply. The horse stamped skittishly as Maedrethnir landed a short
distance away, the messenger’s steed letting out a whinny of unease. The
herald patted the beast on the shoulder and urged his mount closer, so
that he could be heard without shouting.

‘General, the Naggarothi prince declined your invitation,’ said the
messenger.

‘Does this prince have a name?’ Imrik asked.

‘He is Maldiar, my prince,’ replied the herald. ‘A lord of Athel
Toralien.’

‘Never heard of him,’ said Imrik. ‘Must be one of the upstarts Malekith
made prince before he disappeared into the northern wastelands.’

‘Indeed, my prince,’ said the other elf. ‘He bade me to tell you that
the Naggarothi do not accept demands from Caledorians. I am sorry, my
prince, but Maldiar also instructed me to tell you to abandon your
attack on the orcs and claims he alone has right of conquest in these
lands.’

‘We shall see,’ said Imrik. ‘Return to the army and tell my captains to
be ready to advance.’

‘As you command, my prince.’ The herald turned his horse away; it leapt
gratefully into a gallop to race away from Imrik and his monstrous
steed.

‘Let us meet Maldiar,’ Imrik told Maedrethnir.

A rumble shook the dragon’s chest, which might have been a laugh, and he
powered into the sky. Dragon and rider headed towards the Naggarothi,
skimming over the heath just above the height of the few scattered trees
that broke the rough hillscape.

The griffon rider – Maldiar, Imrik assumed – had noted the approach of
the Caledorian prince and directed his own winged mount head-on towards
Imrik. As the other prince came closer, Imrik could make out more of
Maldiar and his beast. The prince wore silver and gold armour inlaid
with rubies; the eagle-like head of his griffon was feathered with blue,
black and red, and its hindquarters were striped white and black, its
claws the colour of blood.

The griffon let out a high-pitched shriek as the two princes closed in
each other. Maedrethnir shook with a deep growl in reply, smoke leaking
from his nostrils.

‘Force them down,’ said Imrik.

Maedrethnir surged higher, climbing above the griffon, and then stooped
with wings furled, heading straight for the Naggarothi prince. Neck
straight, jaw open, the dragon looked like he would crash into the
griffon and rider. At the last moment, he opened his wings and stopped
in mid-air, sending a rush of wind over Maldiar. The griffon swayed and
dipped in the draught, tumbling a short distance before righting itself.
Maldiar’s shouted curses drifted up to Imrik but the Caledorian ignored
them and pointed to the ground.

With Maedrethnir hovering just above and behind, Maldiar descended,
guiding his griffon to land upon an outcrop of rock rising up through
the sea of gorse and grass. Imrik and his dragon spiralled around them
three times before landing within lance-reach. The griffon was a large
beast, three times the size of a horse, but it was dwarfed by
Maedrethnir, who loomed over creature and rider with wings outspread,
blocking the morning sun.

‘How dare you!’ rasped Maldiar. ‘This is an insult! By what right do you
interfere with my rightful progress?’

‘I am Imrik of Caledor. You have no rights here. These will be my
lands.’

‘Imrik? I have heard of you. I have heard of your jealousy of Prince
Malekith, and this is a brazen attempt to steal lands that are his by
rightful conquest.’

‘Those orcs say otherwise,’ said Imrik. ‘Turn your army back. You are
not welcome here.’

‘I do not waste my time with Caledorian thieves,’ said Maldiar. ‘By
Khaine’s bloodied fist, I should strike you down for this.’

‘Please try,’ said Imrik. Maedrethnir reared up onto his back legs and
let out a deafening bellow. The purple-feathered crest on Maldiar’s helm
flapped madly and the griffon darted closer, hissing and cawing. Maldiar
wrestled with the reins of his mount and pulled it back.

‘Your threats are empty, Imrik,’ said Maldiar. ‘I shall clear these
lands of the orcs and claim this region for Nagarythe. Your Phoenix King
would think badly of Caledor if you were to dispute such a victory in
his court.’

Imrik offered no comment and watched impassively as Maldiar struggled
with the griffon’s reins for a moment and then directed it into the air.
The Naggarothi prince sped back to his army.

Imrik sighed. Maldiar was right, he was not about to attack another army
of elves. The only solution would be to destroy the orcs before the
Naggarothi could get involved. As Maedrethnir headed cloudwards again,
the prince saw that the matter would not be easily settled. The knights
of Athel Toralien were some way ahead of the rest of the Naggarothi
army, and bearing down fast on the orc camp.

As swiftly as he could fly, Maedrethnir headed back to the Caledorian
army. Already the columns were marching out, no doubt ordered forth by
Dorien in anticipation of Imrik’s return. The knights split into two
wings either side of the infantry, holding the line unlike the reckless
advance of the Naggarothi. In three columns the archers and spearmen
marched south, two heading directly for the orc and goblin camp, the
third angling eastwards, cutting off the greenskins’ retreat from the
river. With the Naggarothi coming up fast, there would be nowhere for
the orcs to run.

Imrik soared over the army, the shadow of Maedrethnir passing over the
lines of warriors. The morning mist had melted away in the strengthening
sun and the clouds above had thinned, leaving patches of bright sunlight
on the heathland. Dorien and Thyrinor steered their dragons towards
Imrik and took up station on either side of their general, all three
dragons easily keeping pace with the marching columns with steady beats
of their wings.

‘I said they would not listen,’ called Dorien. ‘We have wasted time
treating with the Naggarothi.’

Imrik said nothing in reply. For all the speed of their advance, the
knights of Athel Toralien were now dangerously separated from the
support of the Naggarothi infantry and war machines. Maldiar had caught
up with the swift vanguard and swooped to and fro above the cavalry.

The Caledorian general turned his attention to the real enemy. Bands of
wolf-riding goblins criss-crossed the moorlands as pickets. The dragons
were easy to notice and the distant sound of brash horns sounded the
warning of attack. Through the smog of the fires, Imrik could better see
the orc encampment; it was larger than he had anticipated, stretching
for some distance along the river bank. He could see the waters fouled
downstream of the greenskins, a slick of filth washing away to the
south.

The orcs needed no tents for shelter, though there were a few crude
stockades holding packs of giant wolves and droves of large boars. Imrik
could see orcs and goblins clambering into these enclosures with whips
and goads.

Something larger caught his eye. Close to the centre of the camp burned
the largest fire, surrounded by ragged banners and crude totems. To one
side a scaled, winged beast strained at chains run through rings
hammered into its flesh, binding it to the ground. It was almost as
large as a dragon, though it had no forelegs, its scales deep green in
colour, its head surrounded by horns and a yellow crest.

‘Wyvern,’ growled Maedrethnir, also seeing the monster. The dragon
quivered with anger. ‘Twisted spawn of the mountains. We shall slay it.’

‘And its master,’ added Imrik as a huge orc emerged from the throng of
greenskins and approached the wyvern.

The orcs were mustering quickly, gathering in tribal groups around
barbaric standards of skulls and bones topped with ugly, fanged faces
fashioned from wood. The smaller goblins seemed more reluctant to leave
the camp, and clustered together in several crowds behind their larger
cousins.

A shrieking cry split the air and the wyvern climbed awkwardly into the
air, the orc warlord upon its back. The sound of cheering and roars of
approval drifted across the moorlands, joined by a vigorous banging of
drums and discordant horns.

Imrik directed Maedrethnir downwards, the pair swooping across the
Caledorian army less than a bowshot above. The general signalled to his
captains to make ready the battle-line and then soared high again,
watching the enemy. Beneath him the two columns of infantry spread out,
alternating archer and spear companies, while the bolt throwers were
unloaded from their wagons and assembled at the flanks of the long rows
of elven warriors. One wing of cavalry rode on to reach the river; the
other held back in reserve, ready to press home a breakthrough or
counter any reverse inflicted by the orcs.

To the west, on Imrik’s right, the Naggarothi cavalry had divided into
squadrons, each several hundred strong and riding in an arrowhead
formation, their fluttering banners at the apex of each wedge. It looked
as if they planned to charge into the heart of the greenskin camp; a
reckless strategy. Imrik could see the orcs forming up to face the
charge of the knights; masses of fanged, muscled warriors carrying
wooden shields and all manner of cleavers, swords, axes and mauls.

For a moment, Imrik had lost sight of the wyvern. He found it again, on
the ground at the heart of the gathering orc and goblin horde. The
warlord was gesturing madly, trying to convey some rough battle-plan to
its subordinates. The wolf-riding packs of goblins were coming together,
riding between the Naggarothi knights and the infantry following some
distance behind. The goblins harried the elven cavalry with short bows,
sending ragged volleys from the backs of their wolves. The shooting had
little effect against the heavily armoured knights, but here and there
an elven rider fell or a mount was killed, leaving a thin trail of dead
and wounded in the wake of their rapid advance.

The orcs had also mustered their cavalry; two masses of boar riders had
gathered at the far end of the strengthening orc line, further to the
west. Bullied by the orcs, a swathe of goblins was driven east and
north, towards the Caledorians. The plan was simple and immediately
obvious to Imrik’s experienced eye. The goblins would keep the
Caledorians busy while the tougher, stronger elements of the army would
see off the Naggarothi attack.

The orc warlord’s plan could well work, Imrik decided. Maldiar’s desire
to embarrass Imrik had outweighed his judgement. No matter the prowess
of the Naggarothi knights, there were too many greenskins to sweep away
with an unsupported charge.

The situation put Imrik in a dilemma. He could rapidly change his own
plans and support the Naggarothi attack or he could hold to his position
and allow the knights of Athel Toralien to be destroyed.

He raised his lance high, the signal for Dorien and Thyrinor to fly
within earshot. They did so, just a little behind Imrik, the tips of the
dragons’ wings almost touching.

‘Thyrinor, tell the army to make general advance,’ said Imrik. ‘Kill the
goblins and attack the orc flank.’

‘The Naggarothi won’t thank you for rescuing them, brother,’ shouted
Dorien. ‘If they want to dash their lives upon the rocks of pride, let
them.’

‘Every elf slain by an orc hand is a stain upon the honour of all of
Ulthuan,’ said Imrik. ‘I cannot allow it. Follow me!’

Ignoring his brother’s further protests, Imrik called to Maedrethnir to
bank to the right and head for the Naggarothi. He did not check to see
if Dorien came after him, knowing that despite his brother’s ill wishes
towards the Naggarothi, he would obey the command of his general.

Dragon and prince climbed towards the clouds, the air growing colder the
higher they flew. Imrik’s breath came as wisps of mist and his skin was
chill by the time they had reached the Naggarothi. He looked eastwards
and saw Thyrinor leading the Caledorian attack. Archers and bolt
throwers reaped a heavy toll of the massed goblins as the spearmen
closed from the front and the left wing of the cavalry swung along the
river. Looking down, he saw that the third infantry column was not far
behind the knights of Athel Toralien, a short way ahead of the
Naggarothi army.

The boar riders could hold their enthusiasm no longer and they raced
from the orc lines, spears lowered for the charge. The Naggarothi
cavalry had been expecting such a move and the lead squadrons parted
before the greenskin assault, leaving them to the following companies.
Confused by the manoeuvre the orcs tried to rein in their madly running
mounts and anarchy engulfed the riders while they tried to redirect
their charge. They were too late, as hundred of lances were lowered and
the gold-clad elven knights smashed into their flank.

From his vantage point high in the air, Imrik could appreciate the
precision of the charge, three spearpoints of riders hitting the boar
riders in echelon; the first charge split the front of the orcs from the
rest and the next two hammered into the side of those at the back,
cleaving into the dark mass like a golden shaft of light piercing
shadow.

The riders that had avoided the boars galloped on, veering to the left
to attack the point of the orc line where the orc mobs were fewest in
number. Imrik saw what Maldiar intended; to break through between the
orcs and goblins and then attack the line from the rear. The Caledorian
revised his earlier judgement of Maldiar’s generalship. It was a bold
tactic, but if it worked the greenskin army would be thrown into
turmoil, confronted with marauding knights at their rear and several
thousand infantry approaching from the front.

The problem was that once they were behind the orcs, the knights would
be trapped against the river, as the orcs had been, and hindered by the
boggy ground. They were too far ahead of their support and the
greenskins would have time to turn and face them before the infantry
arrived.

‘What is you plan, brother?’ called Dorien.

‘To kill orcs!’ Imrik shouted back, directing Maedrethnir into a steep
dive.

Dorien followed, the two dragons racing to the ground at incredible
speed, the wind whipping at the princes’ cloaks, threatening to tug the
lance from Imrik’s grip as he levelled it for the attack. Behind him,
the banner poles of the throne-saddle bent madly, pennants snapping.

Maldiar had his own idea for supporting the knightly charge. As his
cavalry smashed into the greenskins, his griffon swept over the rear
ranks, claws slashing, the Naggarothi prince’s sword a blaze of blue
fire that sliced through the greenskins by the handful.

As the ground rushed closer, Maedrethnir let out a terrifying roar. Orcs
scattered across the moorlands in all directions, forgetting the
rampaging knights in their dread. Many were hacked down as they ran,
others turned in desperation to fight the elven cavalry but were
ill-prepared; the knights of Athel Toralien cut through their ranks as
easily as a ship’s prow parting water, leaving a mangle of bodies as
they continued their charge into the camp.

Dorien and Imrik hit the orcs simultaneously, their dragons bellowing
dark fire from their maws, claws raking huge gaps into the orc mobs like
ragged welts on green flesh. Imrik’s lance gleamed white from the runes
etched into it, a trail of dancing motes left in the air as its tip
slashed throats and punched through bodies without pause.

As Maedrethnir landed, crushing more orcs beneath his scaled body, Imrik
reached back and unhooked his shield. The dragon swept a dozen orcs into
the air with a sweep of his tail while more blackish-red flames engulfed
twice that number.

Less than a spear’s throw away, Dorien and his mount inflicted similar
damage, the orcs boiling around him flailing futilely at his dragon with
axes and cleavers, their blows bouncing harmless from massive scales.
Imrik could hear his brother’s clear voice, ringing out with a
battle-poem of his homeland.

As Maedrethnir snapped his jaws around two orcs, biting them in half,
Imrik looked around, wondering what had become of the warlord and his
wyvern. He found the answer as a dark blur rushing at Dorien from above
and behind the prince.

The general shouted a warning, but it was not needed. Dorien had been
playing ignorant and as the wyvern dived in for the attack, the
Caledorian prince’s dragon lunged from the ground, wings unfurling. The
wyvern’s jaws and claws missed by less than the length of a sword,
though the orc warlord slashed a black-headed axe across the dragon’s
tail, sending blood and scales showering to the ground.

The two monstrous creatures raced upwards, spiralling and snarling, each
seeking to gain height on the other. Dorien’s dragon was stronger than
the wyvern, rising more swiftly with each beat of his wings. As the
wyvern strained to keep pace, the dragon twisted with surprising
agility, dipping a wing to plunge down, claws ripping at the wyvern’s
neck.

Dorien’s lance plunged through the wyvern’s right wing as the orc
warlord swung its axe at the dragon’s shoulder, the strangely burning
blade slamming deep into flesh. Wyvern and dragon locked together,
ripping and biting; Dorien stowed his lance and drew a longsword that
glittered like moonlight. Prince and warlord rained blows upon each
other as the beasts plummeted, the orc lashing its weapon wildly while
Dorien’s sword was a shimmering gleam of movement.

Imrik was distracted from the duel by the clatter of arrows against
scale and armour. He saw that the orcs around him had fled and in their
place a knot of goblins loosed crooked-shafted arrows ineffectually from
a bush-filled dell to his left.

‘Burn them,’ Imrik told his mount.

Maedrethnir swung his head and opened his cavernous mouth. The goblins
let out shrill screams a moment before the hollow was awash with smoke
and fire. Imrik turned his attention back to his brother in time to see
Dorien’s dragon heave itself away from the wyvern moments before hitting
the ground. With a damaged wing and blood streaming from scores of
wounds, the wyvern could not right itself in time and plunged sideways
into the moor, shedding scales in a flail of legs and tail. The warlord
was tossed clear by the impact, landing head-first in a small stream
some distance away.

While Dorien swapped his sword for his lance once more, his dragon
circled around the fallen wyvern, bathing it with fire. The grounded
beast hissed and roared, ungainly on its two legs, tail thrashing
awkwardly in the flames.

‘Up,’ said Imrik. Maedrethnir bounded into the air and took the general
above the battle.

All semblance of two coherent battle lines had been lost. The goblins
had broken before the advance of the Caledorians, fleeing back towards
their camp in their hundreds while Imrik’s knights bore down on them
from the direction of the river. Several companies of archers had split
from the main host and were pouring volleys of arrows into the orc camp,
each shaft tipped by magical white flame.

Beyond the dying wyvern, Maldiar and his griffon were mauling the
remnants of the boar riders; the hybrid monster tossed squealing hogs
into the air with beak and claws while the Naggarothi prince chopped
heads and limbs from the riders. The Naggarothi infantry had now reached
the battle, driving the goblin wolf riders before them with spear and
arrow. Along the river bank, the Naggarothi knights were reforming,
ready to charge again into the fray.

Imrik caught sight of the orc warlord surging up from a thicket of
reeds, axe still in hand.

‘Let Maldiar argue when I have the warlord’s head,’ Imrik told
Maedrethnir. The dragon gave a deep-throated rumble of approval and
turned towards the orc leader. Maldiar had spied the enemy as well and
his griffon soared over the Naggarothi advance, speeding towards the
warlord.

‘A fool races a dragon,’ said Maedrethnir, cutting across the moorlands
with swift wing beats, the ground rushing past so close that the
dragon’s wingtips brushed the stands of grass and bushes.

Yet the dragon’s dismissive remark was premature; the warlord broke into
a run towards Maldiar, shouting madly and waving its axe. Imrik saw a
gleam of magical fire as Maldiar raised his sword high and called his
griffon into a steep dive.

The warlord slowed to a halt and stood with stocky legs apart, axe in
both hands, fixed on the approaching Naggarothi prince. Imrik heard his
dragon snarl and could feel the beast’s whole body shuddering with
effort as Maedrethnir strained every sinew to close the distance before
Maldiar struck.

Imrik could tell he would be too late. Maldiar was already leaning to
one side in his saddle, sword held horizontal for the killing blow, the
shadow of the griffon racing over the undulating ground, about to engulf
the orc.

Both princes were utterly intent upon their prey. If Maldiar missed,
Imrik’s lance would find the orc’s back before the Naggarothi could turn
for a second attack. The Caledorian tightened his grip on the lance,
glittering point spearing towards the warlord, even as Maldiar’s griffon
plunged for the kill.

As a snarling blur of red, Dorien’s dragon slammed into Maldiar’s mount,
sending both tumbling into the ground.

Startled, Imrik almost missed his mark, but swung the lance point back
on target at the last moment. The ithilmar tip slid effortlessly through
the orc’s armour, punching out of its chest as Maedrethnir swept past.
The shock of the blow almost wrenched the weapon from Imrik’s grasp and
lifted him against his saddle harness, the orc carried bodily through
the air for some distance as Imrik’s dragon banked and rose towards the
blue skies.

The warlord’s dangling body slid from the ithilmar shaft, ripping free
the pennant so that it fluttered like a cape as the corpse cartwheeled
down onto the rocks and grass. Maedrethnir bellowed in triumph, his roar
­shaking Imrik’s whole body.

Imrik was more concerned with what was going on on the ground below him.
Maldiar and Dorien faced each other, swords in hand, their respective
mounts looming behind each prince. The general trusted neither to stay
their hand, and shouted to Maedrethnir to land close by. Imrik watch the
two elves staring at each other and exchanging insults as his dragon
circled tightly to reduce speed. Maedrethnir landed on all fours, beside
Dorien’s dragon; Imrik had already stowed his lance and was pulling at
the harness buckles before the dragon’s claws had touched the ground.

‘Put away your weapons!’ Imrik shouted as he swung from the saddle-
throne and dropped lightly to the dirt.

‘He calls us thieves,’ protested Dorien, eyes locked on the Naggarothi.

‘I do not take commands from Caledorian cowards,’ said Maldiar, his gaze
not moving from Dorien.

‘Cowards?’ snarled Dorien, taking a step. Maldiar raised his sword a
little higher in response. ‘I will cut off your head for such an
insult!’

‘You will not,’ snapped Imrik, stepping in front of his brother. He
grabbed Dorien’s sword arm. ‘Sheathe your blade, brother.’

‘Listen to your master, yapping dog,’ said Maldiar. ‘Do not test your
blade against mine.’

Imrik whirled on the Naggarothi, his hand at his sword hilt in an
instant.

‘I might yet,’ said Imrik.

Maldiar hesitated, his sword tip wavering for a moment before he stood
firm again, eyes narrowed, jaw clenched.

‘I thought not,’ said Imrik. ‘The battle is not yet won.’

‘I am all but victorious,’ said Maldiar. ‘The rabble have been
scattered, it is only a matter of time before my warriors hunt them
down.’

‘This is not your victory,’ said Dorien, pulling his arm from Imrik’s
grip and pushing past. ‘Your knights would be dead, as would you, if we
had not come to your aid.’

‘My aid?’ Maldiar’s face was a mask of sneering hatred. ‘Your
interference almost lost me this battle.’

‘Go away,’ said Imrik, pulling back Dorien by the shoulder. ‘Destroy the
rest of the enemy, brother.’

Dorien looked Imrik in the eye, cheeks twitching. Imrik met the look
with a cold stare that his brother knew well. With a parting dismissive
gesture, Dorien slid his sword into its scabbard and stalked back to his
dragon.

Imrik returned his attention to Maldiar, who had lowered his blade but
not sheathed it.

‘We shall split the spoils,’ said Imrik.

‘How so?’ replied the Naggarothi prince. He laughed sourly. ‘You are
welcome to keep the bodies. I shall take the land.’

‘No,’ said Imrik. ‘You shall have the land west of the river, and
Caledor the region to the east.’

‘Why would I agree to such a thing?’ Maldiar put away his sword and
crossed his arms defiantly. ‘Why would I give half my new lands to you?’

‘Some is better than none,’ said Imrik. ‘If Malekith has complaint, let
him bring it to me.’

‘You know well that our fair prince campaigns in the north,’ said
Maldiar. ‘He has not set foot in the colonies for nearly fifty years.’

‘Do you lack the authority to agree such a bargain?’ asked Imrik.
Maldiar stiffened, stung by the implication of the question.

‘I am a prince of Nagarythe; I speak with the full authority of Prince
Malekith and Queen Morathi.’

‘Queen Morathi?’ Imrik frowned at the mention of Malekith’s mother,
widow of Aenarion. ‘Morathi is queen no more.’

‘In Nagarythe she is,’ said Maldiar with a sly smile. ‘I agree to your
terms. It matters not. When Malekith returns, we shall stake our full
claim and will not be refused. Enjoy your prosperity while it lasts,
Caledorian. Nagarythe grows tired of shedding blood for the benefit of
others. You will not make such demands in the future.’

Maldiar spun away and strode back to his griffon. The beast lowered to
the ground as the prince grabbed the gem-studded reins. Before he pulled
himself up to the saddle, the Naggarothi looked back at Imrik.

‘You should be wiser in your words and actions, prince,’ Maldiar said.
‘Khaine has turned his red gaze upon you, Imrik of Caledor. You should
hope that he is not displeased.’

Imrik was taken aback by this mention of the Bloody-Handed God. It was
widely known that the Naggarothi were blatant in their worship of the
Lord of Murder, and many of the other dark gods of the cytharai, but to
hear Khaine’s name spoken so openly was a shock even for Imrik. He
watched as Maldiar flew away, wondering what was meant by the threat.

‘Let us finish this,’ Imrik said to Maedrethnir, dismissing the
Naggarothi from his thoughts. Such vague insults and threats were
typical of his folk.

The march back to the colony of Caledor was a long one, but the
Caledorian host was in high spirits following their victory over the orc
horde. Imrik did not share the jubilation of his troops, unsettled by
the words of Maldiar and the events he had witnessed following the
battle. Many of the Naggarothi had gathered up the wounded orcs and,
instead of slaying them out of hand as Imrik had ordered his warriors,
they were taken back to the camp of the Naggarothi. Imrik did not know
for sure what fate had awaited these prisoners, but having heard Maldiar
speak of Khaine and seen variations of the Bloody-Handed God’s rune upon
some of the Naggarothi banners and shields, he had his suspicions.

Word of the orcs’ defeat had reached ahead of the army and the walls of
the Grey City, Tor Arlieth, and the streets within were lined with
celebrating elves. The city was built in the mountain foothills, rising
above the huge canopy of forest that stretched from the sea north-west
of where the orcs had been slain. Seventeen pale grey towers rose up
from the wooded slopes, roofed with blue slate and flying the flags of
Caledor. A wall ten times the height of an elf girded the city, with
another half as tall around that. Between the two walls were the camps
and garrisons of the army, and it was here that the knights and militia
paraded to the applause of their people. Garlands of flowers looped from
roof to roof, and leaves had been strewn on the pavements. Harps and
horns and pipes played from roof terraces and balconies, while below the
citizens cheered their warriors’ return.

Having flown thrice over the city with his brother and cousin, so that
the grateful people could raise up their voices in song and praise of
their heroic princes, Imrik descended to the hill upon which the keep
and palaces were fashioned from the rock of the mountain. The citadel
was built as a representation of a huge dragon, its walls spreading like
wings until they merged with the mountainside, the main tower rearing
high above topped with a roof of gold. A hundred flags flew from the
battlements, each belonging to a noble house of Caledor, and above them
all, the banner of the city snapped in the mountain air. Trumpets
sounded through the clear air to signal the arrival of the princes, and
a guard of honour formed by the huge gates; the dark red wood of the
portal carved with a relief of the mountains of Caledor, the shapes of
dragons flying above.

The three dragon riders landed on an immaculate lawn that split the wide
plaza that surrounded the citadel. Divested of their harnesses and
saddle-thrones, the dragons bade their riders farewell and flew up to
caves in the mountain overlooking the city. Accompanied by Dorien and
Thyrinor, Imrik strode through the opening gates as the guard company
lifted their spears in salute.

Imrik wanted to head to his chambers, but was waylaid in the long
entrance hall by Hethlian, the chancellor of the city. Dressed in a long
robe of jade green and golden yellow, the aging elf emerged from a crowd
of servants and called Imrik’s name. The chancellor was dressed in full
ceremonial regalia; a belt of gold and rubies hung about Hethlian’s
waist, the symbol of his position, and he carried an ornamental sceptre
in his left hand, topped with a sapphire the size of a fist, intricately
shaped like the petals of a rose.

‘Your safe return heartens us all, princes,’ said Hethlian, performing a
short bow to each of them. ‘It is with immense pleasure and pride that I
offer my personal congratulations on your victory, as well as the
gratitude of the city.’

Imrik thought of more than six hundred elves whose bodies had been
carried back to the colony on biers, but said nothing. They would
receive their honours in time, he was sure.

‘A three-day festival has been declared by the council of elders,’
continued Hethlian. ‘You will, of course, be our guests of honour.’

‘Will we?’ said Imrik, startling the chancellor.

‘My cousins and I would be honoured to accept your gracious invitation,’
said Thyrinor, stepping next to Imrik. ‘Yet we are weary from the march
home and would appreciate a little time to recover before we discuss the
arrangements.’

Imrik looked at Thyrinor, one eyebrow raised, and suppressed a sigh. His
cousin’s face was impassive, save for his eyes, which held a slight look
of pleading. Thyrinor glanced towards Hethlian and nodded with an
encouraging smile.

‘Yes, we will attend,’ said Imrik. Hethlian smiled and bowed again. He
opened his mouth to speak, about to launch into a fresh monologue, but
Imrik cut him off. ‘Has there been news from Ulthuan?’

‘Um, yes, several caravans have arrived via Tor Alessi bearing missives
and goods,’ said Hethlian, quickly regaining his composure. ‘Nothing of
note, I would say. Trade goes well. The colonies west of Ulthuan
continue to grow, though not as strongly as here in Elthin Arvan. Prince
Laetan of Cothique became a father to a beautiful daughter in the
spring. Bel Shanaar attended the marriage of...’ Hethlian’s voice
trailed away in the face of Imrik’s unblinking stare. The chancellor
rallied with a brief smile. ‘As I said, nothing of note.’

‘What of Nagarythe?’ said Imrik. ‘Or Malekith?’

‘No news of Malekith has reached us here,’ said Hethlian. ‘The borders
of Nagarythe are still closed to trade and visitors as far as I am
aware. We have, however, received several delegations from Athel
Toralien. It seems they are more amenable to contact than their kin back
in Ulthuan.’

‘There are Naggarothi in the city?’ said Dorien.

‘A few, yes,’ said the chancellor. ‘Simple traders, I assure you. You
know they have far better connections to the dwarfs than we, and the
demands of the city for dwarf goods have never been higher. They come
and go infrequently. Is that a problem?’

‘There will be if I meet one of them,’ snapped Dorien. ‘Just keep them
away from the citadel, we don’t want them prying and poking around
here.’

Hethlian had no reply to this and the four elves stood in silence for a
moment. Imrik glanced at Dorien with an impatient look.

‘I trust that our apartments are in order and food and wine available,’
said Thyrinor.

‘Yes, you will find everything to your satisfaction, princes,’ said
Hethlian with a look of gratitude. ‘Your servants await you in your
chambers. Let me keep you from their attendance no longer.’

The chancellor bowed again and swiftly retreated along the hallway,
darting a glance over his shoulder at the princes before disappearing
through a curtained archway. Imrik turned towards the corridor leading
to the royal apartments, but was stopped after just two steps by a
liveried servant.

‘What is it?’ Imrik snarled at the retainer.

‘The chancellor did not mention that a letter from your brother arrived
this morning, prince,’ said the elf. ‘It was sealed with Prince
Caledrian’s mark, so I left it with your household.’

‘Thank you,’ said Imrik. ‘Anything else?’

‘No, prince,’ said the servant, backing out of Imrik’s path.

Imrik marched along the corridor, boots ringing on the marble floors,
Dorien and Thyrinor trailing behind.

‘You seem even more irritable than usual, cousin,’ said Thyrinor,
hurrying to keep pace. ‘What is it that so perturbs you?’

‘The Naggarothi,’ replied Imrik.

‘Finally,’ said Dorien. ‘Have I not long warned you about Nagarythe? We
should ban them from the city.’

‘It is not the city I am worried about,’ said Imrik, taking a turn to
the right through a pointed archway, his footfalls muffled by a thick
red carpet embroidered with white and yellow rose designs.

‘Is it this letter from Caledrian?’ said Thyrinor. ‘Do you have an
inkling of what it contains?’

‘No,’ said Imrik, ‘but when I receive a personal letter from the ruler
of Caledor, and not one marked by his court, I fear it bears bad
tidings.’

They came upon the double doors to Imrik’s apartment. Two servants
opened the pale wooden doors and bowed as Imrik paced inside without
breaking stride

‘I am going to my rooms to get out of this armour,’ said Dorien,
continuing along the portrait-lined passageway.

Imrik simply nodded, sparing his brother not a glance. The members of
the prince’s household lined the walls of the foyer. As Imrik walked
past his chatelaine, Elirithrin, she stepped forwards with a small
silver tray, a white envelope on the platter.

‘You wish to see this?’ she said.

‘Thank you,’ said Imrik, plucking the letter from its place as he walked
past. ‘Bring wine and a cold platter to my study.’

‘How did you know?’ said Thyrinor, stopping next to Elirithrin. ‘That he
would want to see the letter, I mean.’

‘Experience,’ the chatelaine replied with an expression of surprise. ‘I
have served the prince for two hundred and thirty-eight years. I know
his priorities.’

‘Of course you do,’ said Thyrinor. He hurried after Imrik and entered
the shelf-lined study just as his cousin was sitting down behind an
ornate desk.

While the offices of other elven nobles housed libraries of prose and
poetry, philosophical tracts and genealogical tomes, Imrik’s was empty
by comparison. One set of shelves was brimming with rolled parchment
maps of Ulthuan and Elthin Arvan, another with bound treatises on
military matters. The remaining two sets of shelves were sparsely
populated with a variety of strange ornaments; amongst them a gilded orc
skull with diamonds for eyes, a selection of daggers of both elvish and
dwarfish make, several ornate ceremonial helmets, and a silver dragon
scale the size of a spread hand mounted on a plaque – supposedly from
Aenarion’s mount Indraugnir.

Imrik stood again, unfastened his cloak and laid it carefully over the
back of his chair before sitting down. From a drawer in the desk, he
brought out a gilded letter opener in the shape of a miniature
dragonspear, with a broad, leaf-shaped head. He inspected the seal,
satisfied himself that it was intact and cut open the envelope with a
single stroke.

He ignored Thyrinor hovering at the end of the desk as he read, quickly
scanning his older brother’s flowing script. The letter was brief and to
the point. Caledrian had heard increasing rumours of unrest within the
borders of Nagarythe. He feared that the turmoil might spread to
neighbouring Tiranoc, Ellyrion and Chrace but Bel Shanaar refused to
act. He requested that Imrik return to Ulthuan, with Dorien and Thyrinor
if they desired, to represent Caledor in the council of the Phoenix
King.

Imrik handed the letter to Thyrinor without comment and leaned back in
the chair, arms folded. He watched a frown deepen on his cousin’s brow
as Thyrinor read.

‘Will you come?’ said Imrik when he saw that Thyrinor had finished.

‘What?’ said Thyrinor, who was reading parts of the letter again. ‘I
don’t know. Is it wise that we all go back?’

‘I am summoned by Caledor’s prince and I must answer,’ said Imrik. He
leaned towards Thyrinor, one hand on the top of the desk. ‘I would like
your company.’

‘My company?’ said Thyrinor with a short laugh. ‘I thought you always
preferred your own company, cousin, though I thank you for the
invitation.’

‘I cannot go to Tor Anroc alone,’ Imrik admitted with a grimace. ‘Court
life will madden me beyond belief.’

‘Why do you think Caledrian chooses you?’ Thyrinor said, moving to a low
couch in front of the map store. ‘You’re not the most diplomatic person
to send.’

‘Maybe that is why,’ Imrik said with a shrug. ‘I do not know why
Caledrian does not attend himself. I will ask him.’

‘It will take some time to make preparations for the journey,’ said
Thyrinor, placing the letter on the arm of the couch. ‘I’ll have the
staff attend to it.’

‘What are you talking about?’ said Imrik. ‘Preparations?’

‘The journey from here to Tor Alessi; booking passage on a ship to
Ulthuan; arranging transport from Lothern. That doesn’t happen by
itself.’

‘None of that will be needed,’ said Imrik, smiling slightly.

‘It won’t?’ said Thyrinor. He looked closely at his cousin, eyes
widening with realisation as he saw his happy expression. ‘You want to
ride the dragons all of the way back to Caledor?’

‘It’s quickest,’ said Imrik. ‘No point wasting time.’

‘What about our belongings? The servants? Shall they dangle underneath?’

‘They can follow after,’ said Imrik. He tapped gauntleted fingers on the
desktop. ‘Bel Shanaar is known for the luxury of his palace, you will
have comforts.’

‘But riding all the way?’ Thyrinor opened his hands imploringly to
Imrik. ‘Why?’

Imrik stood up and folded his cloak over his arm.

‘We’re dragon princes,’ he said, tapping a finger against his
breastplate. ‘Why sail when you can fly?’
