
TWENTY-ONE


An Oath Fulfilled

Alith ran for many days, heading south across Ellyrion, filled with the
spirit of the hunt. Clad in naught but his weapons, he avoided the herds
of the Ellyrians, travelling by day and night. He did not pause to kill
and drank sparingly, possessed by the vision of his new war against the
druchii. As packs his warriors would hunt, like the Shadows of old.

By the dark of night he crested a hill and looked south. To the east the
lights of Tor Elyr glittered on the waters of the Inner Sea. He
hesitated for just a moment, a last pang of regret upon seeing the city
where Athielle lived. It was gone in an instant. To the south he saw the
shrouded lanterns of the Naggarothi camp.

Approaching the camp, Alith was called upon by a picket to identify
himself. It was only when he saw the astounded look upon the sentry’s
face that Alith became aware of his outlandish appearance. The
Naggarothi eyed Alith for a long time, struggling between joy and
incredulity as the prince made himself known.

‘Send word to Khillrallion and Tharion that I wish to see them
immediately,’ said Alith as he strode unashamedly into the camp.

‘My prince, where have you been?’ asked the warrior, following a little
way behind his lord. ‘We feared that you were dead or taken prisoner.’

‘Such a thing will never happen,’ Alith replied with a grim smile. ‘The
druchii will never catch me.’

Alith sent the soldier ahead to fetch his lieutenants and made directly
for the rough lodge that served as his quarters. More Naggarothi came
from their huts and tents to stare at their returning prince. Alith
ignored their inquisitive gazes, though he noted that while many were
astounded by his appearance an almost equal number seemed to focus upon
the moonbow in his hand.

Tharion came running through the camp as Alith reached the door to the
lodge.

‘Prince Alith!’ the commander cried out with a mixture of relief and
surprise. ‘At first I did not believe it!’

There followed much inquiry as to the prince’s whereabouts and actions,
all of which Alith refused to answer. His experiences in Avelorn were
his alone, to share with no other. All that his people needed to know
was their prince had returned, and with fresh purpose.

When Khillrallion arrived, he brought with him another elf: Carathril.
Alith was as surprised by the herald’s presence as Carathril was by
Alith’s appearance. They greeted each other coolly, both unsure of each
other’s agenda.

‘What brings the herald of the Phoenix King to my camp?’ Alith asked as
they walked into the main room of the lodge. He carefully placed the
moonbow on the long table, before removing his belt and quiver and
laying them to one side. Alert and dignified, Alith sat at the head of
the table and gestured for the others to sit.

‘Carathril is here at my request,’ said Tharion, exchanging a glance
with Khillrallion. ‘When you disappeared we were at a loss. We sought
the advice of King Caledor as to how we might best aid his cause. We
have been discussing joining Caledor in his next campaign.’

‘That will not be required,’ said Alith. He turned to Carathril.
‘However, your journey has not been entirely in vain. Return to your
master with the news that the druchii have invaded Avelorn in strength.
Even now they are probably at the border of the Gaen Vale.’

Carathril took this news with a frown.

‘And how are you aware of this?’ asked the herald.

‘I have returned from Avelorn, and saw the druchii for myself,’ Alith
told the group. ‘I fear Chrace is now entirely overrun, and the eastern
kingdoms would do well to prepare their defences for a fresh onslaught
by Morathi.’

Alith fancied he could see the questions burning in the minds of the
others but none were voiced.

‘That is grim news,’ said Carathril. ‘I will convey this to King
Caledor. However, my reason for being here has not changed. I wish to
discuss how best you might aid the Phoenix King in his war against the
druchii.’

‘Please leave me alone for a moment with the Phoenix King’s herald,’
said Alith, keeping his tone neutral.

‘Perhaps we could, hmm, fetch you some clothes, prince?’ suggested
Tharion.

‘Yes, do that,’ Alith replied absently, his gaze fixed on Carathril. He
continued when the others had left the room, finally allowing his anger
to show. ‘I am not some hound to be called to heel! I fight for my lands
and my heritage, not for the Phoenix Throne. I will wage my war against
the druchii in whatever way I see fit, and will suffer no interference
or questions. Protect Ulthuan and its people, but know this: Nagarythe
is mine.’

‘You would set yourself up in opposition to the Phoenix Throne?’ said
Carathril, his face a picture of disbelief. ‘You claim Nagarythe as
yours? What makes you any different from Morathi? By what right can you
claim such rule?’

‘I am Naggarothi. The cold of winter runs in my veins. The legacy of
Aenarion beats in my heart. My father and grandfather have given their
lives to Nagarythe, not for glory or renown, but out of duty and love. I
do not seek Nagarythe for myself, but to keep the land safe from the
ambitions of others. The Phoenix King’s grandfather chose to leave Anlec
and found his own realm in the south, and by that action relinquished
any claim to rulership over Nagarythe.’

‘You owe loyalty to nothing,’ said Carathril, bowing his head with
sadness. ‘You would make yourself a king, yet you would rule over barren
waste and have no subjects. You will become a king of shadows.’

Alith smiled at Carathril’s choice of title and remembered Elthyrior’s
words from so many years ago. ‘In the mountains she sent me to find you,
the child of the moon and the wolf, the heir of Kurnous. The one that
would be king in the shadows and hold the future of Nagarythe in
balance’.

Since that first conversation, the raven herald had insisted that Alith
should plot his own course, should follow his destiny without complaint.
Alith found truth in that message. He had become the prime hunter, the
leader of the pack. The druchii were his prey and he would never give up
his pursuit of them.

Alith looked at Carathril, still smiling. The herald did not share
Alith’s amusement. The prince nodded.

‘Yes, that is exactly what I will become.’

When Carathril had been abruptly dismissed, Khillrallion and Tharion
returned with boots, robe and cloak for Alith. They also brought a pail
of water and soap but Alith waved these away.

‘We cannot win against the druchii in open war,’ Alith told them as he
pulled on the robe and fastened the broad belt around his waist. ‘Not by
our own strength. There are simply too few of us left.’

‘Then we should fight alongside the Ellyrians or Caledorians,’ said
Tharion.

‘No!’ snarled Alith. ‘We will continue to fight where we have always
done, where it pains the druchii most: in Nagarythe. It could be years
before Caledor is ready to march north in strength, and what will we
find as liberators? A spoiled wasteland, destroyed by darkness and
battle, and Anlec tumbled into stones, humbled. If Caledor invades
Nagarythe he will destroy every­thing to cast out the druchii;
everything that we would give our lives to protect. We can wage a
different war, one that will eat at the druchii from within. Weakened,
they will lose their war in the other realms and we will stand ready to
claim power.’

‘You would see us all become Shadows?’ said Tharion, guessing Alith’s
intent.

‘I would,’ replied the prince. He wished to gaze outside but the hall
had no windows. Instead he looked deep into the flickering light of the
fire. ‘Elanardris is no more; every crack and shadow will be our new
home. The dark woods, the fens, the hills will conceal us. Not a single
druchii will walk in Nagarythe without looking over his shoulder. Not a
single army will march on the roads without fearing every outcrop and
vale. This is a test of will, and we cannot flinch. For every one of
ours that dies, a dozen druchii must be sent screaming to Mirai. For
every drop of blood we give, we take a river in return.’

‘Retraining all of your warriors will not be swift,’ warned
Khillrallion, sat upon one of the benches. ‘Many have spent a lifetime
in the ranks, learning discipline and the craft of open battle. These
are not the skills of the Shadow, and they have no experience.’

‘We will divide the army between you and the other remaining Shadows,
that’s roughly fifty warriors each,’ Alith declared. ‘In Athelian Toryr
they can learn the ways of the woods, be tutored by the wisdom of
Kurnous. In the mountains and the passes they will come to know the
secrets of rock and snow.’

‘And what of weapons?’ asked Tharion. ‘We have less than a thousand bows
for more than three thousand warriors, and that many Shadows will need a
forest of arrows.’

‘I will see what the Ellyrians can provide for us for the time being,’
said Alith. ‘In the end, our warriors must learn to make such things for
themselves, or take them from their slain foes, for it is only thus that
we will be able to continue to fight in Nagarythe. Just as the shrines
of Kurnous exist as stores for the hunters in the wilds, we shall set up
caches across Nagarythe, hidden from the eyes of our foes and made
secret by enchantments. Remember that we will be Shadows, homeless and
untraceable. The army must learn to hunt what it needs, to pass without
notice, to leave no sign of their presence.’

‘You are asking a lot,’ said Khillrallion.

‘Those that cannot learn will be left behind,’ snapped Alith. He glared
at his two captains, daring them to speak out. For a moment he bared his
teeth and narrowed his eyes, much as Blackmane had done to cow his pack.
‘I am your prince and these are my commands!’

Khillrallion nodded in silent acquiescence while Tharion leaned away
from Alith, shocked by his ferocity. Alith relented and held out a
placating hand towards the pair.

‘We must be strong, stronger than ever before,’ said the prince.

‘As you wish, lord,’ said Tharion, standing and giving a formal bow. ‘I
swore an oath to your grandfather and father, yet I have not had
opportunity to give it to you until now. I will serve House Anar and its
prince until the end of my days. As my lord bids me, so shall I act. By
Asuryan and Isha, by Khaine and Ereth Khial, I am bound by this oath to
you.’

Alith watched Tharion as he marched from the hall, looking at
Khillrallion only when the ageing elf had left.

‘Two years,’ Alith said. ‘In the spring two years from now, we will
return to Nagarythe and begin our shadow war. I look to you to make sure
that we are ready. I would have no other captain to aid me.’

‘And I would have no other prince to follow,’ Khillrallion replied with
a wink. His mood then became sombre. ‘Twice I thought I had lost you,
and yet you have returned. Yet, neither time do I think the prince I
knew has come back.’

‘I will be a prince for only a little while longer,’ Alith said. ‘When
we return to Nagarythe, I shall be the Shadow King.’

For most of the year the Naggarothi trained in their new style of war.
Alith sent petitions to Finudel asking for weapons, which the prince
granted as best as he was able. No mention was made by either of them
regarding Athielle. Finudel informed Alith in one letter that she had
heard news of his disappearance but not his return. Alith assured
Finudel it was better that she believed him gone, lest she leave the
city and come to the camp. Such an encounter would not be to the benefit
of either.

The following winter, as far as the Ellyrians could tell, Alith’s army
simply disappeared. Riders brought news to Finudel and Athielle that at
dawn they had passed the Naggarothi settlement and found it deserted
where the night before it had been filled with life. No tracks told of
where they had gone, and nothing remained of their occupation; not a
single arrowhead or cloak, link of mail or water bottle had been left
behind. Nearly three and a half thousand elves had vanished.

Alith had led his warriors into Athelian Toryr, dispersing them through
the forest and mountains. Each of these groups was led by a former
Shadow, respectfully known as shadow-walkers by the other warriors for
their ability to move without trace. Alith led no cadre himself, but
moved between the groups, monitoring their progress and instilling them
with his bitter ethos.

For another year they continued to train, living in the wilderness
without supply or support. The shadow warriors honed their archery and
their stalking, and learnt the words of Kurnous that would bring fire to
dead wood or summon hawks to be their messengers. They slept in tree
branches or beneath arching roots, made pillows of rocks and lairs of
caves. By Alith’s design, no group knew where the others dwelt, and they
were ordered to avoid each other as the wolf packs avoid their rivals.
If one was seen by a shadow warrior from another cadre, the
shadow-walkers would punish them, setting them arduous tasks of
survival. To some it may have seemed cruel, but to Alith it was
essential that his army be self-sufficient, not only physically but
mentally.

Alith hardened the minds of his warriors as much as their skills.
Whenever he visited a cadre he would speak to them at length, reminding
them of the ills done to them by the druchii, passing on his own thirst
for revenge, stirring up the dark passions that seethed beneath the
civilised faces of all Naggarothi. He wanted his warriors not only to be
skilled but to be as savage as the wolves, merciless and determined.

‘When you look at your foe, do not see another elf,’ he would tell them.
‘See them for what they are: creatures less than animals. Remember that
your enemy is responsible for all of your woes. It is he that cast you
from your homes, tortured your friends and slaughtered your families.
You can have no compassion for those you will slay, for it will be
rewarded by failure. Hesitation is death, doubt is weakness. The druchii
tore your lives from you and threw them upon sacrificial pyres, and
anointed their priests with the blood of your kin. The ghosts of the
fallen wander Mirai, wailing in grief for the wrongs done to them,
pleading with the living to avenge them.

‘Do not long for peace, for there can be none while any druchii still
draw breath. Embrace war as the crucible of your valediction, the means
to purge this stain upon our people. Swear oaths of vengeance, not to me
or your companions or to the uncaring gods, but to fallen mothers and
fathers, dead sisters and brothers, slain sons and daughters. Take the
darkness that the druchii have created and rob them of its power. You
are the blade that will strike down the wicked. You are the shadow
warrior, the faceless bringer of justice.’

As the last days of autumn gleamed upon the red and yellow leaves, Alith
called the groups together, assembling them in the foothills at the
eastern end of Eagle Pass. By night they made camp, gathering silently
by the dying light of Sariour and the ruddy glow of the Chaos moon.

‘We are ready,’ said Alith, his quiet voice the only sound to break the
stillness. ‘The wait is over, the fighting begins anew. By dawn we will
be heading towards Tiranoc and war. I will not ask you to follow me, for
you have all proven your loyalty to our cause. I will not exhort you to
acts of bravery, for you have all shown great courage to be here. I will
only say that this is our moment of truth. Let the princes of the east
fight their great battles and hurl the lives of their subjects away in
futile resistance. It is here, in the west, that this war will be won.
We fight for loved ones lost. We fight for futures blighted. We fight to
reclaim a land that was once gloried above all others. We fight for
Nagarythe.’

‘For Nagarythe,’ came the hushed answer from the army.

As the shadow warriors melted away into the darkness, heading westwards
along the pass, Tharion approached Alith and fell in beside his prince.

‘Is it wise to march on the brink of winter, lord?’ asked Tharion.

‘Armies do not march by winter, but we are not an army,’ Alith replied.
‘We are hunters, remember. In rain and wind and snow and baking sun we
stalk our prey, across moor and mountain, river and fen. Let the druchii
worry about moving armies in the grip of the ice, with their wagons and
their baggage. Let them stand helpless as we burn their towns and kill
their folk, as we were once helpless against the legions of Anlec.’

Tharion nodded in understanding, and Alith saw a dark fire in the
veteran’s eyes. It was the same look that Alith saw whenever he chanced
upon his reflection in a pool or patch of ice.

The attacks of the shadow warriors came as a shock to all of Ulthuan.
News quickly spread amongst the druchii and their enemies. At first
Alith kept his army together, overrunning the eastern watch towers of
Eagle Pass, ambushing druchii patrols on the road and waylaying their
messengers. Isolated by the growing snows of winter, druchii garrisons
huddled in their camps, casting fearful gazes into the night. They
whispered that the shadow army was made up of the spirits of those
sacrificed to Ereth Khial, who had escaped her underworld domain to
wreak their vengeance.

Alith learnt of this and laughed at the superstition of his prey. He
used their fears as weapons, terrorising the druchii at every
opportunity. Before their attacks, his warriors hid in the shadows and
made wailing cries to unsettle their foes. They called out names they
had overheard, accusing the druchii of being murderers. Howling like
wolves the shadow warriors prowled just beyond the light of the fires,
allowing the sentries vague glimpses of movement before disappearing.
With whispered spells the shadow-walkers cast a gloom upon the fires,
dimming their light and sending the druchii into a fearful panic.

Then the shadow warriors unleashed the fury of their bows. Storms of
black shafts enveloped the camp, each one unerringly finding its mark.
Never once seeing their attackers, the druchii died by the hundreds,
screaming and panicked. And always the shadow warriors left a few
survivors, allowing them to escape so that they would take their dread
and horror to others. The shadow warriors retrieved their arrows from
the dead and left the bodies for the crows and vultures. Each dawn
heralded a new column of smoke as a camp or caravan burned, and the
druchii would look to the mountains and wonder if the next night would
be their last.

At Koril Atir, at the height of the pass, the druchii had built a keep
to watch to the east and west. For two days the greater part of the
shadow warriors marched, bypassing the camps and wayforts along the
pass. A few bands were sent by Alith to harass the druchii garrisons at
the Ellyrion end of the pass, obscuring the shadow warriors’ true
location.

At midnight, the shadow warriors gathered on the slope below Koril Atir.
The citadel’s battlements rose in a jagged spire above the valley,
silhouetted against the sliver of Sariour as the white moon descended in
the west. Thin pennants fluttered from the flagpoles in the strong
mountain winds, but that same wind brought no sound save for the screech
of owls and the occasional roar of a hunting beast.

The keep was the most ambitious target yet and Alith could sense the
trepidation of his followers. It was one matter to attack poorly
defended camps, another to storm a fortress. Alith had confidence
though. This would be no frontal assault, with screaming battle cries
and siege engines. Surprise and stealth would bring the shadow warriors
a greater victory than any army of Ellyrion could achieve. It was his
intent not only to send a message to the druchii that none of their
lands were safe, that no army or fortress offered them protection; Alith
wanted the princes of the east, and the Phoenix King in particular, to
understand just how dangerous the shadow army could be. The Anars would
never be underestimated again.

When the moons had disappeared and all was dark, Alith led his followers
towards the citadel. Lanterns burned from the narrow windows of the
tower, but there was still much shade to conceal Alith and his army. By
the light of these lamps, Alith could see warriors patrolling the
battlement, ruddy light gleaming from spearpoints and helms.

Alith led the first wave of shadow warriors, circling around the keep
and moving on the citadel from the north along the butte on which it
stood, picking their way across the cliff face itself. The stones of the
tower were closely set, with no sure purchase for toe or finger between
them. However, the shadow warriors used knives and climbing spikes to
scale the wall, quietly driving their points into the mortar that held
together the giant blocks. Alith and fifty warriors slowly made their
way up the tower wall, pausing whenever they heard the tread of boots
above, cautiously advancing when the danger receded.

Alith was reminded of the time he had scaled the citadel of Aenarion in
Anlec. He wondered if any sorcerous ward protected Koril Atir. He could
feel the vortex churning through the Annulii and nothing else, but he
was not a mage by any means and much dark magic was subtle and difficult
to detect. If there were magical barriers, he would have to overcome
them; there was simply no way he could prepare for every eventuality.

Reaching the battlement, Alith waited until a pair of patrolling
sentries passed. He slipped through the embrasure behind the guards and
padded forwards on soft feet, knife ready for the kill. He heard a soft
grunt behind him and glanced behind to see Khillrallion hauling himself
over the battlement. The two of them exchanged nods and darted forwards,
slicing the throats of their prey and toppling their bodies to the rocks
below with fluid movements.

Alith leaned over the wall and signalled for the shadow warriors to
finish their ascent to the rampart. When all were upon the top of the
wall, Alith cupped his hands to his mouth and mimicked the cry of a snow
owl. Within moments he heard shouts from the far side of the tower, on
the south approach, as the remaining shadow warriors made their presence
known. Flaming arrows arced through the night sky and it was not long
before feet were pounding up the wooden steps within the tower.

Dozens of the garrison poured from the doorways onto the rampart and
Alith’s contingent struck with bow and sword, cutting down the druchii
as they emerged. Their dying cries mingled with the shouts of the Anar
warriors on the other side of the tower, adding to the confusion. Their
bodies were dragged aside and Alith led his warriors into the red-bathed
interior of the keep. The distinctive rattle of repeater crossbows
sounded from below as the defenders shot from arrow slits on floors
within the tower. These needed to be dealt with quickly. Alith signalled
for Khillrallion to take half of the shadow warriors and deal with the
missile troops. Alith would head for the main gate with the rest.

Just like Anlec, Alith thought with a satisfied smile.

As dawn’s rosy gleam reached the citadel, Alith ordered his warriors to
bring the bodies of the slain druchii to the main gate, and to raid the
armoury for spears and other weapons. Several Ellyrians were found in
the tower’s dungeons, tortured and bloody. Alith gave them clothes and
weapons and sent them east upon the mounts once used by the citadel’s
messengers.

‘When asked who liberated you, say that your saviour was the Shadow
King,’ Alith told the Ellyrians as they departed.

The Anar prince stood at the gate, seven hundred slain druchii piled
around him. With a meaningful look at his warriors, he snatched one of
the corpses by the ankle and dragged it to the open gate. He grabbed the
front of the corpse’s shirt and leant it against the black-painted
timbers.

‘Spear,’ he snapped to Khillrallion, holding out a hand. The
shadow-walker brought a weapon to his leader and stepped back. ‘It is
not enough that we kill our enemies. They fear their mistress in Anlec
far more than they fear death. We need to send the druchii a message
even their depraved minds can understand: even in death they are not
safe from our revenge.’

With that, Alith thrust the spear two-handed, its point passing through
the throat of the druchii corpse and into the gate. Alith gave the shaft
a twist to ensure it was stuck fast.

Taking his knife from his belt, Alith cut a rune into the forehead of
the dead druchii: thalui, the symbol of hatred and vengeance. He tore
open the elf’s shirt and across his chest carved another: arhain, the
rune of night and shadows. Examining his handiwork, Alith wiped the
blade clean on the rags of the corpse’s shirt and placed it back in his
belt.

Alith looked at his warriors, seeking any sign of disgust or horror. A
sea of faces watched him blankly, a few with deep intent. Alith nodded
to himself and pointed to the mounds of the dead.

‘Send a message,’ he told his shadow warriors.

‘It is grim reading, my prince,’ said Leothian, bowing obsequiously as
he handed the parchment scroll to the lord of Tor Anroc.

Caenthras ignored the subservient herald and turned to the messenger’s
companion, one of the lieutenants tasked with guarding Eagle Pass. The
Naggarothi prince fidgeted on the throne of Bel Shanaar, uncomfortable
with its design. The three elves were swallowed up by the massive
emptiness of the great hall of the palace, their voices echoing coldly
from the bare walls and high ceiling.

The audience benches had been removed, and all petitioners were forced
to stand or kneel before their new master. It was one of the few changes
in Tor Anroc that had pleased Caenthras; the mewling Tiranoc nobles were
still allowed to live by the direct order of Morathi, but they now knew
their proper place.

‘Tell me, Kherlanrin, why I should let you live,’ Caenthras said
heavily.

The warrior stifled a glance towards Leothian and kept his eyes
downcast.

‘I would gladly fight a foe that faces us in battle, but I can no more
defeat this enemy than I can nail shadows to the ground,’ Kherlanrin
said quietly. ‘Our soldiers awake in the morning to find their
commanders dead, their despoiled remains hanging from trees outside the
camp, with not a guard or other soldier harmed. Horses with the corpses
of our scouts tied upon the saddles are sent into our camps, the mouths
and eyes of their dead riders stitched shut, their wrists bound with the
thorny stems of mountain roses.’ He shuddered and continued. ‘I found a
squadron of knights that had been moving between Arthrin Atur and
Elanthras. Their throats were slit and the bridles of their steeds had
been nailed into their faces.’

‘The situation is unacceptable,’ said Caenthras. ‘Anlec demands results.
I will give you another ten thousand warriors, as many as I can spare.
As soon as the snows abate, you will lead them into the pass and bring
me the heads of these rebels. I want to know who leads them and I want
to find out by looking at his dead face. Is that understood?’

The pair nodded and retreated swiftly when Caenthras dismissed them with
a wave of his hand. The whole situation was embarrassing. The assault on
Avelorn was faltering because Caenthras’s commanders were fearful to
march along the pass. This left the Ellyrians free to support Avelorn
from the south. Caenthras had no idea how much longer Morathi’s patience
with him would hold, but he was determined that his would not be the
first head on the block when that patience finally failed.

On a fresh spring day Alith looked down at the sinuous columns of black
from atop a steep cliff, Khillrallion beside him.

‘They will spend all of the seasons of Rain and Sun looking for us,’
said the shadow-walker. ‘The druchii will divide their forces to sweep
the pass, and then we will strike at each part in turn.’

‘No, that is not my intent,’ said Alith with a grim smile. ‘These
warriors come from the west. Morathi’s commanders have emptied their
camps to search for us, leaving Tiranoc all but unguarded. They think
that we cannot slip past so many eyes. They are wrong.’

‘We go to Tiranoc?’

‘To Tor Anroc, no less,’ said Alith.

Ten days after the druchii offensive began, Alith was far to the west,
­hiding in the caves where he had first sought sanctuary with Lirian and
the other refugees. With him he had brought only the shadow-walkers,
leaving the rest of the army to the east, to amuse themselves at the
expense of the druchii as they saw fit. He had brought only former
Shadows because what he had planned was beyond the skill of those so
recently trained. When Alith explained his intent to the others he was
met by confusion and incredulity.

‘It is a great risk that you take,’ said Khillrallion, giving voice to
the concerns of his comrades. ‘And for little gain.’

‘You are wrong if you think this is merely a personal vendetta,’ said
Alith. ‘Consider the despair of our foes when they realise that nowhere
is safe for them, not even the palace of an occupied city. It will sow
division in the druchii ranks, and cast doubt in the minds of their
leaders. Think of their dread when they learn that no number of soldiers
can keep them safe, no wall or gate can keep out the shadows that hunt
them. We must not only be merciless, we must be daring! We will
terrorise our foes and infuriate them at the same time. No locks or bars
will keep us out! We will steal the swords from their belts and the gold
from their treasuries. Not only will they fear us, they will hate us for
our audacity. We will drive them mad, send them thrashing at illusions
while we laugh at them from the darkness.’

‘I am not sure it can be done,’ said Gildoran.

‘It can and it will,’ Alith replied calmly. ‘Did we not open the gates
of Anlec under the noses of the druchii? Did I not scale the palace of
Aenarion, and spy upon Morathi as she performed her dark rituals? Tor
Anroc is as nothing compared to the perils of Anlec.’

‘And you ask us to risk our lives in this endeavour?’ said Gildoran.
‘Some would think it vanity.’

‘I do not ask anything!’ Alith growled, losing patience. ‘I command and
you obey. I am the Shadow King, and I have made my will known. If you
cannot live with that, then leave, go east and live amongst the
Ellyrians or the Sapherians or the Cothiquii. If you would be a
Naggarothi, you will follow me!’

‘Forgive me, prince,’ said Gildoran. ‘It shall be as you say.’

Mollified, Alith clapped an arm to Gildoran’s shoulder and looked out at
his shadow-walkers. The prince was genuinely excited by the prospect of
what he was about to do, the first time in several years.

‘Good!’ said Alith. ‘Death to the druchii!’

Sitting on Yrianath’s throne, Caenthras looked up as the doors of the
great hall opened and a messenger entered quietly. She was dressed in a
long robe of deep purple, silver medallions in the shape of elongated
skulls hanging on slender chains from her belt. Caenthras recognised her
immediately: Heikhir, one of the Anlec heralds. The Naggarothi prince
glowered at the emissary as she strolled languidly along the hall. No
doubt she carried more demands from Morathi.

‘I bear tidings from your queen,’ said Heikhir with a bow. Her actions
were deferential, but Caenthras sensed mockery in their exaggerated
precision. He knew that the court in Anlec considered him a failure. The
treachery of Yeasir had ensured that. Far from being the power he had
envisioned, he was little more than a puppet of Morathi, in turn
manipulating her gutless mouthpiece, Yrianath. At least Palthrain had
had the good grace to get himself killed to leave Caenthras in sole
command of Tiranoc.

‘What is it?’ Caenthras asked wearily.

‘The queen yet awaits your latest report on the hunt for the rebels in
Eagle Pass,’ said Heikhir.

Caenthras shrugged.

‘Every soldier that can be spared scours the pass for these ghosts,’ he
said. ‘If the queen were to command me to lead the army I would drive on
into Ellyrion. These attacks are nothing more than a distraction.’

‘These attacks are a direct affront to Queen Morathi,’ Heikhir said
pointedly. ‘Can you find no more troops?’

‘Not without weakening our defences on the border with Caledor,’ said
Caenthras. ‘Perhaps she could spare me a sorcerer or two from her little
coterie, to use their magic to track these… rebels?’

‘The pretender king fights in Cothique, what threat is there from the
south?’ Heikhir asked, ignoring the question.

‘Enough,’ Caenthras replied. ‘Or perhaps Morathi would prefer the dragon
princes to simply fly over Tiranoc and attack Anlec directly?’

Heikhir laughed but there was no humour in her tone.

‘I shall report that your efforts are… ongoing.’

Caenthras did not have the will to argue. It mattered not at all what he
said, Heikhir would take back whatever message she thought most pleasing
to her mistress. For a moment Caenthras considered writing a letter, to
put his concerns into record. He dismissed the idea. For one thing, he
was too tired. For another, he doubted it would ever get delivered.

‘Is there anything else?’ he sighed.

Heikhir shook her head with an impish smile and then bowed. Caenthras
stared daggers into her back as he watched her leave.

Caenthras stood with some effort, weighed down by his worries. He turned
to the door on his left, to make his way back to his chambers. He
stopped in mid-stride. In front of the door there stood a shadowy
figure, swathed in black.

‘Who are you?’ Caenthras demanded. ‘Did Morathi send you?’

The stranger shook his head slowly, the movement barely visible in the
depths of his hood.

‘Did you come with Heikhir? What do you want?’

In reply, the figure drew back his hood. For a moment Caenthras did not
recognise who it was, but then realisation dawned. The face had not
changed much, but its expression had. Once it had looked at him with
fawning desperation but the face he looked upon was filled with utter
contempt.

‘Anar!’ snarled Caenthras as he realised several things at once: that
Alith was the leader of the ‘rebels’ in Eagle pass; that his capture
would bring Caenthras renewed favour from Anlec; and that he would take
some personal pleasure from killing the last of the wretched House Anar.
The ruler of Tor Anroc reached to his waist for his sword and then
remembered that he had none – his blade was still in his bedchamber.

Alith had not moved; his eyes were fixed on Caenthras.

‘I will call for the guards!’ Caenthras declared, suddenly less certain
of himself.

‘And I will disappear,’ Alith replied quietly. ‘Your only chance of
capturing me is to defeat me by your own hand.’

Caenthras looked around the hall for something he could use as a weapon,
but there was nothing. Grimacing, he turned back to Alith.

‘You would kill an unarmed enemy?’

‘I have done so already, hundreds of times,’ Alith said.

‘You have no honour.’

‘I have seen what happens in so-called fair fights,’ Alith told him.
‘The honourable usually lose.’

Alith reached over his shoulder and pulled forth a magnificent bow, made
of a shimmering metal, decorated with twin symbols of the moon.
Caenthras’s stomach lurched as Alith fitted an arrow to the impossibly
thin bowstring and raised the weapon.

Caenthras considered his options. It was doubtful he could cross the
hall and grapple Alith before he loosed his shaft. There was nowhere to
hide. If he called for aid, Alith would still shoot and then slip away,
no doubt.

‘You have been wronged, I admit that,’ Caenthras said, taking a step
forwards. ‘By me, I know.’

‘Wronged?’ Alith spat. Caenthras flinched at the scorn in the young
warrior’s tone. ‘Because of you my family is dead, my people slain or
enslaved and my lands are a razed wilderness. By your hand, thousands of
true Naggarothi have died. Your ambition has welcomed vile war and
spread darkness across all of Ulthuan. And you say you have done wrong?’

‘Please, Alith, show some mercy,’ Caenthras pleaded, taking another
step.

‘No,’ Alith replied, letting go of the bowstring.

Alith stowed his bow and pulled free his sword. Crossing swiftly to
Caenthras’s body, he pulled the arrow from his prey’s left eye and
chopped off Caenthras’s head, placing the bloody trophy in a tightly
woven sack. Alith headed back towards the door by which he had entered,
but then stopped. He walked back to the corpse and gave it a hard kick
in the ribs.

‘I’ll see you in Mirai, you bastard,’ Alith whispered. ‘I’m not finished
with you.’

Horns and shouts and other clamour roused Yrianath from his fitful
slumber. He awoke to find an elf dressed in the livery of his servants
shaking him. He did not recognise the face, but that was not unusual.
The Naggarothi regularly changed his staff to ensure he had no one with
whom he might conspire.

‘What is it?’ he asked groggily.

‘Fire, my prince,’ the servant gasped. ‘The whole palace is on fire!’

Instantly awake, Yrianath leapt from his bed and grabbed the robe
proffered by another attendant. He could smell smoke and as the two
servants ushered him out of the chambers he could see the flicker of
flames at the eastern end of the corridor.

‘You will be safe in the gardens, lord,’ the first servant told him,
steering Yrianath towards a stairwell half-hidden behind a tapestry.
‘We’ll use the servants’ way, it’ll be quicker.’

Yrianath allowed himself to be led down the spiralling steps and along a
narrow corridor. They passed rooms and passages he had never seen
before, but he spared them not even a glance. Other servants were
hurrying past in the opposite direction, on their way to fight the fire.

The group passed through one of the smaller kitchens and out into a wide
herb garden. From here, Yrianath’s escorts turned right and led him
through an arch in a hedge. Yrianath found himself in a circular garden,
bordered by the hedgerow and night-flowering hisathiun.

‘Wait here a moment, prince,’ the servant instructed him. Yrianath was
not used to taking orders from his subjects, but he was confused and so
stood where he had been left as the two attendants vanished into the
darkness.

He waited there for a moment, turning his eyes up to the towers of the
palace where flames flickered from the windows and a blot of smoke
swathed the stars.

‘Do you have any regrets?’ a voice asked him from the darkness. Whirling
around, Yrianath searched the night garden but saw nothing.

‘Who’s there?’

‘Your conscience, perhaps,’ the voice replied. ‘How does it feel to have
the deaths of so many on your hands? What do you think history will say
of Prince Yrianath?’

‘I was tricked! Trapped by Palthrain and Caenthras!’

‘And so you did the honourable thing and took your own life… No, wait,
that isn’t what happened, is it?’

‘Where are you?’ Yrianath demanded, continuing to turn on the spot,
seeking his interrogator. ‘Show yourself.’

‘Do you feel guilty?’

‘Yes, yes I do!’ Yrianath shrieked. ‘Every night I am haunted by what I
have done. I know I was foolish, short-sighted. I meant no harm!’

‘And what act of contrition would you perform to make amends?’

‘Anything, oh gods, I would do anything to put this right!’

Something shimmered in the darkness and a sheathed dagger fell at
Yrianath’s feet.

‘What should I do with that?’ he asked, staring at the knife as if it
were a poisonous serpent.

‘You know what to do. I suggest slitting your throat would be quickest.’

‘What happens if I refuse?’ Yrianath flicked the dagger away with the
toes of his bare foot.

‘This happens,’ said the voice, directly behind Yrianath. There was a
flutter of cloth and a black-gloved hand closed over his mouth, stifling
his scream. Yrianath felt a hot pain in his back and then everything
went numb. Blackness swallowed him and he fell.

Alith removed the prince’s head and placed it in the sack with
Caenthras’s. He would have spared Yrianath the indignity if he had been
brave enough to take his own life. Instead, he would also be used as an
example. A glance confirmed the fire raged in the palace, its ruddy
light creeping across the gardens.

Keeping to the shadows, Alith headed for the boundary wall.

Clouds swathed the mountains to the east, turning to a blood-red as the
sun rose. A pall of smoke hung over Tor Anroc, the scorched towers of
the palace rising as blackened spires over the city. Here and there
embers glowed, flickering through glassless windows.

There had been panic on the streets, but the druchii commanders had
stamped down ruthlessly on the citizens of Tor Anroc, accusing any that
were found outside of being arsonists, slaying them on the spot. Fear
shrouded the Tiranocii capital as much as the swathe of smoke.

‘I’m glad I wasn’t at the palace last night,’ said Thindrin, slouching
against the battlement of Tor Anroc’s eastern gatehouse. The druchii’s
spear and shield were leant against the stonework next to him.

‘For sure,’ replied his companion, Illureth. ‘I think that those that
died in the fire were the lucky ones. The Khainite witches will have
plenty of bodies for their pyres tonight when Caenthras is finished.’

‘Or perhaps he’ll send them into Eagle Pass, for the rebels to torture,’
said Thindrin. His vicious grin turned to a frown. ‘I’m not certain
which is worse: witches or rebels.’

‘For sure,’ Illureth said again, suppressing a yawn. The sentry glanced
absently over the rampart. Something caught his attention. ‘What is
that?’

Thindrin looked down to the roadway leading up to the gate and saw an
indistinct shape, tall and thin in the dawn gloom. For a moment he took
it to be a person, but then dismissed the notion. There was another
shape, of the same size and height, on the other side of the road.

‘I don’t know,’ he said. ‘Stay here, I’ll take a look.’

Thindrin snatched up his spear and shield and jogged casually down the
steps inside the gate tower. He signalled to Coulthir at the gate to
open the small access door. Ducking through, Thindrin walked a few paces
along the road. Two spears had been driven into the turf either side of
the paved slabs, and something round hung from each. As the light
brightened and Thindrin walked closer, he saw what it was. His spear
dropped from his grasp and clattered on the flagstones.

Thindrin gathered his wits for a moment and turned back to the
gatehouse.

‘You better send for the captain!’ he called out.

Upon the spears were the heads of Princes Yrianath and Caenthras; the
rune of shadow carved into the forehead of the first, the rune of
vengeance cut into the cheek of the second.
