

Epilogue

Thousands had been slain by the catastrophe. Whether slain during the
brief but deadly daemonic incursion, drowned by the tidal wave or
crushed by the earthquakes, all of Ulthuan had suffered the wrath of the
vortex’s detonation. Caledor made his way immediately to the Isle of the
Flame, knowing that it was to the Shrine of Asuryan that the princes
would
come.

Over time they did, each bringing tales of woe and loss from their
kingdoms. Thyriol did not arrive though, and Caledor sent an expedition
to seek him. They returned from the Isle of the Dead with the grim news
that they had found the Sapherian prince, locked in stasis surrounded by
Caledor Dragontamer and the other mages of old.

Of the druchii there was no sign.

Word was sent to Alith Anar, who despatched Carathril back with a bitter
message full of grief and hatred. Western Nagarythe was destroyed and
the east ravaged by the vengeful wave. It was a dead land now, laid to
waste by the hubris of Malekith. Tor Anroc and the surrounding
countryside was now a chain of islands, surrounded by treacherous waters
that still spumed and boiled. The druchii sorcerers who had managed to
escape had steered their towers north, towards the ocean.

‘And of Malekith and Morathi, the Shadow King believes that they still
live,’ concluded Carathril. ‘Anlec is a ruin, but there is no sign of
Aenarion’s palace. What do you think that means?’

Caledor’s reply was simple

‘The war is not over. We shall never know peace.’

The storm-wracked seas crashed against a harsh shore of rock pinnacles,
foaming madly. The skies were in turmoil, blackened by dark magic.
Through the spume and rain dark, massive shapes surged across the seas;
towering edifices of battlement and wall.

The castles of Nagarythe followed in the wake of the largest floating
citadel, upon the highest tower of which stood Malekith. The lashing
rain steamed from his armour as he turned at the sound of Morathi’s
voice from the archway behind him.

‘This is where we flee to?’ she said, anger flashing in her eyes. ‘This
cold, bleak land?’

‘They will not follow us here,’ replied the Witch King. ‘We are the
Naggarothi, we were born in the north and in the north we will be born
again. This land, bleak as it is, shall be ours. Naggaroth.’

‘To build a new kingdom?’ sneered Morathi. ‘To accept your defeat and
start afresh as if Nagarythe had never existed?’

‘No,’ replied Malekith, flames leaping from his iron body. ‘We will
never forget that which has been taken from us. Ulthuan belongs to me.
If it takes a thousand years, ten thousand years, I will claim my
rightful place as king. I am the son of Aenarion. It is my destiny.’
