
three 

The Path of Blood

Hellebron was not even sure which gristly organ was the heart. She
rummaged around inside the goblin’s chest, looking for something that
might be a main artery. Her knife slashed here and there until a
fountain of acrid blood splashed across her face.

‘Found it!’ she declared gleefully, ripping free the organ.

Lethruis, the high priest, smiled patiently. Hellebron squeezed the last
of the dark blood into the chalice and then dropped the heart onto a
­brazier, where it hissed and spat. Shadows danced on the walls and
ceiling of the small stone chamber. She looked doubtfully at the ooze in
the cup.

‘Do I have to drink this?’ she asked.

‘If the sacrifice is not good enough for you, what will Khaine think of
it?’ said Lethruis.

Hellebron conceded the point with a sigh and raised the cup to her
trembling lips. She stopped and stooped to take a breath of the narcotic
smoke coming from the brazier. The burning dreamroot filled her lungs
and her body relaxed.

‘This may help,’ said Lethruis. He sprinkled a ground substance into the
goblin blood. ‘Bladesbane makes the blood taste sweeter and the effect
of the dreamroot will be enhanced.’

Believing it was better to get the whole thing over with, Hellebron took
a mouthful and swallowed quickly, gulping down the goblin’s essence
before she could taste it. It was unpleasant, having none of the
vitality of the beastman blood she had tasted at the first ceremony.

‘Praise Khaine,’ she said, emptying the remaining contents of the goblet
into the brazier. The flames almost died, but not quite. They burned low
and blue for a moment before growing in strength and returning to their
normal colour.

Lethruis nodded with satisfaction. ‘You are an able student,’ said the
priest. ‘You are attentive, dedicated and willing to learn.’

‘Thank you,’ said Hellebron, taking a cloth proffered by Lethruis to
wipe her lips.

‘For more than a hundred days you have come to me to learn the ways of
Khaine,’ said Lethruis. ‘If you wish to truly master the arts of the
Lord of Murder, we must spend more time together. Coming here every few
days is not enough. If you truly wish to be a disciple of Khaine, you
must renounce your life and spend all of your time in His service.
Unless you are willing to do this, there is no point in continuing.’

‘But you will be leaving Athel Toralien,’ said Hellebron. ‘You want me
to travel with the army? Leave the city?’

Lethruis shrugged. ‘If you are not willing to put yourself wholly within
Khaine’s bloody embrace, I will teach you no more.’

‘My father would disapprove.’

‘Not all sacrifice is made with knife and blood, Hellebron,’ said
Lethruis. ‘You face a choice. Do not rush your decision. Come to me in
two days’ time, the night before we leave for the new campaign.’

Hellebron nodded, gave a quick bow of respect and left the shrine room.
She walked slowly up the steps from the underground chamber, still
light-headed from the dreamroot and bladesbane. The short stairwell took
her to an open dome, the roof and columns carved from black granite,
engraved with runes of Khaine.

The army mustering field stretched around her, an expanse of black and
purple pavilions, corrals, storehouses, armouries and kitchens. The
Naggarothi were preparing to march far to the east and south, claiming
fresh lands for Prince Malekith and Ulthuan.

Walking across the packed dirt, Hellebron’s head throbbed as the effects
of the narcotics wore off. She felt another pain too: the pain of
indecision. Lethruis was forcing her to make a simple choice, but the
choice was not so simple. Did she really want to give up her inheritance
as the daughter of Athel Toralien’s ruler? Could she go without the
comforts she had been raised to enjoy, to live in some dark shrine and
traipse back and forth across the world following the armies?

This gave her pause. She remembered what it was that had drawn her to
Khaine, aside from the monumental sensation of potency and energy
derived from the sacrifice: power. High priests were influential, and
the role of Khaine within Nagarythe’s army and the ties to Aenarion were
powerful tools. All of that power was for nothing, if Hellebron could
not take it with her when she finally travelled to Ulthuan.

She came to a well, drew up some water and washed the blood from her
hands and face. A nearby red-walled tent was set aside for the priest
and acolytes. Hellebron ducked inside, stripped off her bloodstained
robes and pulled on a dark red dress, fixing it with a thick black belt.

All about the tent were the accoutrements of Khaine; the chalices and
knives, pendants and engraved saws. A circlet of black-enamelled iron
sat upon a small altar stone. Hellebron had never seen Lethruis wear the
Crown of Sacrifice, and wondered what it signified. She knew only its
name, and resolved to ask the high priest when she returned.

The brief distraction settled her thoughts. Throwing in her lot with
Lethruis would not aid Hellebron’s cause one bit. It would mean nothing
to Morathi; Hellebron would just be one of many priests and priestesses
of Khaine that served with the armies of Nagarythe. Hellebron had to do
more. Just as Morathi had brought the worship of Ereth Khial, Morai-heg,
Anath Raema and other gods and goddesses, Hellebron would bring the
power of Khaine to the people of Athel Toralien.

Lethruis was too much of a traditionalist, but he was a true priest. For
the moment he was a useful fount of knowledge. For the moment only. When
she had learned all she could learn from the high priest, Hellebron
would chart her own course. She had spent days in her father’s library,
researching the history of Nagarythe, reading over and over of the
founding of the kingdom by Aenarion. The tales of Aenarion’s wars
bearing the Sword of Khaine, the Widowmaker, thrilled her. She learnt
how the God of Murder had laid his blessing upon the Naggarothi so that
they might banish the daemons that had beset Ulthuan.

Many had forgotten that legacy. While the pleasure-seekers lost
themselves in drug-addled orgies, and the morbid poets sang the praises
of Ereth Khial, the heart of Nagarythe had been left by the wayside.
Hellebron was a princess now, her father a proud soldier and one of the
most powerful elves in the colonies. It was her duty to remind the
people of their great history, and ensure that the realms of Nagarythe
remained strong, pure to the traditions of Aenarion.

She would bring Khaine to the people of Athel Toralien and create a
second Anlec in Elthin Arvan. As a prophetess of Khaine, she would
eclipse the mundane achievements of the other priests.

Hellebron rode back to the city, mind full of this vision, of an army of
followers sworn to Khaine, ready to do her every bidding. She remembered
Morathi’s spectacular reception in Athel Toralien, and dreamed of the
day she too would be welcomed by a cheering throng and her name would be
sung by poets for generations.

Prince Alandrian took the news better than Hellebron had expected.

‘It will be good for you to learn something of our people beyond these
walls, and of a world not confined by tapestries and cushions,’ said her
father. He leaned forwards in his chair and rested his arms on his
scroll-littered desk. ‘Lirieth should go with you too.’

Hellebron hesitated. The conversation was going too well and she
expected some kind of caveat was forthcoming.

‘Once you are out of sight of the city, you are beyond my power,’ said
Alandrian. ‘You will be afforded no special treatment, by the priests or
the commanders of the army. It is good that you desire to grow stronger,
but you will have to do so by your own means.’

‘I understand, father,’ said Hellebron. She looked at his sincere face
and realised that this was not simply a talk to rouse her spirits; he
meant every word he was saying. He was not going to disown her, but he
was not going to use his influence on her behalf either. ‘When Lirieth
and I return, we will be a credit to the family.’

‘You and your sister must look after each other,’ he said. ‘I know that
the two of you are close, but you will need each other more than you
think.’

‘What if Lirieth does not want to come?’ asked Hellebron.

‘She will,’ said her father, smiling fondly. ‘She adores you, and if you
ask her to follow, she will.’

Hellebron considered this. It was a responsibility she had not foreseen.
It was one matter to tie her fate to the cult of Khaine, another to make
the same choice for her sister. But had it not been Lirieth who had
first introduced Hellebron to the Khainites? And Lirieth would be happy
to accompany Maenredil on his campaigns.

‘I will not pressure her, father, but if she chooses to come with me, we
will grow stronger together.’

Alandrian nodded. ‘One other thing, daughter,’ he said. ‘If you are to
learn the way of Khaine, as I and many others did, you must seek not
only the ceremony and sacrifice; you must embrace all of Khaine’s gifts
and learn to wage war. It is this that is Aenarion’s legacy to the
Naggarothi; do not forget it.’

It was Hellebron’s turn to nod. ‘I will study the many bloody ways, in
the shrine and upon the battlefield. We will show those in Nagarythe
that the true spirit of the Naggarothi still flows in Athel Toralien.’

Prince Alandrian walked around the table and embraced Hellebron,
stroking her long hair.

‘You will make me very proud, I am sure,’ he said. The two parted, the
prince leaving his hand on his daughter’s arm for a moment. ‘All of
Athel Toralien will be proud.’

And Morathi, thought Hellebron. Would the queen be impressed?
Hellebron’s star would shine so bright in the colonies, Morathi would be
forced to recognise her achievements.

Hellebron and Lirieth bade a sincere farewell to their father and quit
the city of Athel Toralien. The lives of elves are not measured in days
or seasons, or even years. The sisters saw their first battle in the
foothills of the mountains to the south of Athel Toralien. While she
chanted the praises of Khaine and invoked the blessings of the Lord of
Murder, Hellebron watched the Naggarothi cut down an army of
Chaos-twisted beasts. She admired the cruel efficiency of Nagarythe’s
host, striking with sure and deadly precision like the knife of
Lethruis.

A score of wounded foes were brought back to the camp that night and the
pyre of Khaine burned high. Hellebron and Lirieth took their places with
the other acolytes, bearing the sacred implements of Khaine while
Lethruis despatched the sacrifices. Those Naggarothi warriors who had
performed exceptionally during the battle were anointed with the blood
of their fallen enemies, receiving the praise of Lethruis and the
blessing of Khaine for their violent endeavours.

By day the sisters drilled with the soldiers, learning to fight as one
part of the whole, two spears amongst several thousands. By night they
listened to Lethruis’s tales of Aenarion and his war against the
daemons. With each story, Hellebron’s ambition grew and she knew she had
picked the right path. In Khaine’s service was the glory of myth, and
amongst the Naggarothi there was no greater glory.

Hellebron showed greater patience than in any other endeavour she had
embarked upon. She suffered the long marches, the weary dawns and the
harrowing confrontations with orcs and beastmen without complaint. She
revelled in the sacrifices to Khaine, and gathered a small following of
her own amongst the warriors, who cheered her flourishes with the dagger
and her eloquent praises to the Lord of Murder.

For two decades the sisters followed the armies of the Naggarothi;
fighting in the spear line, and performing the rituals of Khaine upon
the eve of battle and the many nights of victory. Under the tutelage of
the captains and the stern eye of Lethruis, Hellebron learnt the secrets
of spear and sword, dagger and chant.

Lirieth was no less accomplished. The pair fought and offered praise
beside each other, and so grew inseparable. Swept up in her dedication
to Khaine, Lirieth spurned Maenredil’s advances until the captain grew
bored and the two ended their tryst. The sisters fought for each other,
for their brothers-in-arms, and for Khaine. Lethruis often referred to
them as the Daughters of Murder, an epithet Hellebron quickly adopted.

Across the wild mountains, dark forests and windswept grasslands of
Elthin Arvan, the Naggarothi swept all before them. At times they fought
alone, and at others they were joined by the small armies from the other
colony-cities. Such alliances were fraught with tension; the Naggarothi
felt that other elves were hanging on the tails of Nagarythe, and for
their part the soldiers of other kingdoms were suspicious of the
Naggarothi ceremonies and their apparent love of killing.

Lethruis forbade his acolytes from speaking to the elves of other
kingdoms, but when she had the opportunity, Hellebron ignored the
proscription and would pass on the secrets of Khaine to those few who
were willing to listen. With each passing year, she became more
convinced that Lethruis was small-minded and jealous of her popularity.
The high priest was content to preach his bloody sermons to his own, but
Hellebron sought to spread the word of Khaine beyond the Naggarothi.

Three times over the following twenty years, the army returned to Athel
Toralien. Hellebron weighted down her expectations on that first
triumphant parade, and took the praises and cheers of the city’s people
as one amongst many. On the second visit, she entered the city as a
priestess of Khaine, but it was Lethruis who addressed the crowds and
extolled the virtues of Khaine. Hellebron smarted at this glory-stealing
but said nothing. Instead she listened to the advice of Lirieth, who
spoke of patience and dedication.

On the third visit, Hellebron was dismayed. The folk of Athel Toralien
were easily bored and while the Daughters of Murder had been the subject
of tales and gossip for a few years, interest in their exploits soon
waned. The success of the Naggarothi armies was taken as fact, and each
victory was celebrated with less enthusiasm than the last. The beastmen
of the North were all but exterminated, and the orcs of the East had
been driven out by the dwarfs. The lands of Elthin Arvan were almost as
safe as a pasture in Cothique, but the Naggarothi were a forceful people
and would not quit their wars.

Hellebron chafed at being one amongst many; both in battle and in the
cult of Khaine. She and Lirieth sought out the greatest swordmasters and
the most accomplished captains in order to learn new skills, of blade
and command. Some were willing teachers, happy to pass on their skills.
Others were vain elves, many hundreds of years old. These the sisters
ensnared with favours of the flesh, seducing them with their beauty,
manipulating them to pass on all that they knew before discarding them.

Word of these exploits reached Lethruis, and the high priest punished
the sisters harshly, forbidding them from attending the Khainite
ceremonies. Hellebron longed to challenge Lethruis for control, but the
old priest was too canny to be tricked, and too unimaginative to share
her grander vision for the cult of Khaine.

Robbed of a stage, Hellebron and Lirieth’s popularity within the army
dwindled. In defiance of Lethruis, they held their own dedications to
Khaine in secret, performing their bloody acts before a select audience
of the most influential captains and warriors. Compared to the dogmatic,
time-worn displays of Lethruis, these sacrifices were energetic and
fresh. Hellebron allowed others to plunge the dagger into the orcs and
goblins and beastmen that had been captured, sharing in Khaine’s glory,
while Lethruis stubbornly maintained himself as the conduit between the
elves and their bloodthirsty god.

Crossing the lands belonging to the colonies of other kingdoms, the
Naggarothi marched almost to the deserts of the south. Here the orcs had
gathered, far from the cities of the dwarfs and elves, and it was here
the army of Athel Toralien would test itself again.

An orcish settlement had been located by the outriders and the next day
would bring fresh bloodshed. Lethruis had demanded that Lirieth and
Hellebron attend him for the pre-battle rites, yet gave them no part to
play in the ceremony. Hellebron silently fumed as she watched Lethruis
despatch the sacrifices without fuss, cutting out their hearts while he
droned out the same tired platitudes to Khaine he had spoken for
hundreds of years.

She watched the small crowd – barely a third of the army had bothered to
attend – and knew that even here, amidst Nagarythe’s most fervent
warriors, the worship of Khaine was slipping away. The soldiers chanted
‘Praise Khaine’ with hollow eyes and lifeless voices, and the sight of
it tore at Hellebron’s heart.

Twenty years of hardship she had spent trying to create a myth for
herself, and even the small glories she had achieved were ebbing away
with every monotonous chant. The battle of the next day would likely be
the last for many years to come, and Hellebron’s future would drift away
into a life of grey obscurity.

When the last heart was tossed into the flames, Hellebron wanted to
seize Lethruis and throw him in after it. It was not only her ambition
that the tired priest was destroying; more fervently than ever she
wanted the praise of Khaine to be shouted from the lips of every elf,
and though he spoke the sacred words and told the tales, Lethruis was
destroying Aenarion’s legacy with every lacklustre ceremony and insipid
dedication. Khaine, who through Aenarion had saved the elves, would fade
into obscurity, leaving Hellebron’s people weak and vulnerable.

When the crowd had wandered away, Hellebron and Lirieth returned to
their tent. Hellebron was silent for some time as the two sisters sat
sharpening their weapons.

‘Nobody will care!’ said Hellebron, no longer able to hold in her
frustration. ‘Tomorrow will be seen as just another battle against the
barbaric greenskin tribes. Hunting hawks are held in higher regard than
we are.’

‘We are still doing Khaine’s work, sister,’ said Lirieth, sweeping her
stone along the edge of her curved sword. ‘Blood will still be spilt.’

‘It is not enough!’ snapped Hellebron, tossing her blade to the
rug-covered ground in exasperation. ‘How many have fallen to us, my
sister? A thousand spirits sent to Khaine on the battlefield and in the
fires, but it stirs not a word from those who should be praising our
names.’

‘Then we must give the storytellers something to tell,’ said Lirieth.
She held up her blade and inspected the edge. Satisfied, she sheathed
the sword, placed it to one side and drew out a serrated dagger. ‘A tale
can only be told so many times, sister. If it is glory that you seek,
you must give the people something new. They are fickle, so we must
capture their imagination.’

‘Or perhaps we have simply been away too long and our faces and names go
unremembered,’ said Hellebron. She picked up her sword, whispered an
apology to Khaine for disrespecting her weapon, and drew her stone along
it with a keening shriek.

‘I think you would be disappointed, sister,’ said Lirieth. ‘If you hope
to return now and receive the adulation that was poured upon Morathi,
you will not receive it.’

Hellebron snarled. ‘Ingrates and sycophants, all of them,’ she said.
‘What is it that Morathi possesses that we do not?’

‘A legacy,’ said Lirieth. ‘She was Aenarion’s queen, and for that she
will be forever revered. Unless you plan to marry a Phoenix King, you
will need something else to excite the people.’

‘Prince Malekith has never taken a wife…’

‘I was jesting, sister. If Malekith has not married yet, it is unlikely
he ever will; and if he chose a bride, there are other Naggarothi
princesses far higher up the list than you or I. Whatever renown we
seek, we must earn it. Was not that the point, when we set out? If you
merely want to marry into reputation, you could do so at any time.’

Hellebron tested the edge of her sword, effortlessly slicing a piece of
cloth. Satisfied, she used the rag to wipe a smear from the
silver-inlaid blade. She saw the reflection of her face and paused,
admiring herself for a moment. She knew she was beautiful, but beauty
was not unique. She stared hard at herself, her ruby-red lips, the
darker paint around her eyes, the whiteness of her dyed hair and pale
skin.

‘Fear,’ she said.

‘What do you mean, sister?’

‘The people fear Morathi as much as they respect her. She is a sorceress
without equal. Her entourage intimidates people with their strange
customs and mysterious powers. Alone she is forbidding, but as a leader
she embodies something far greater. We must get some followers of our
own, sister.’

‘Father once said that the nature of power is twofold,’ said Lirieth.
‘On the one hand, those with power promise reward to those that serve
them well; on the other, they offer punishment to those that fail to
serve. What have we to offer on either count?’

‘On the second, we have all the power we need,’ said Hellebron. She held
up her blade, touching its tip to Lirieth’s dagger. ‘Death. Perhaps it
is time that Khaine feasted on better fare than degenerate beasts and
the gristle of orcs?’

‘Why sweeten every meal with our own blood, when the whole banquet could
be as succulent?’ Lirieth said with a smile, picking up her sister’s
intent.

‘Tomorrow, during the battle,’ said Hellebron. ‘We will show the true
desires of Khaine. We will give the army a sacrifice it shall never
forget!’
