
NINE 

A Delayed Departure


In the months of preparation before his departure, Malekith received an
unexpected visitor. He was sitting in the uppermost chamber of his tower
overlooking the harbour of Athel Toralien, reviewing an agreement on the
succession of power to his followers. Though he had a palatial mansion,
several in fact, within the city and out in the forest, he chose to
conduct his business here, in a tower built over the part of the old
wall where he had first defended the city against the orcs.

Malekith was just re-reading a particularly complex passage for the
third time when he was disturbed from his study by noise from the street
far below the open window. There was also much commotion from within the
tower, as doors slammed and he heard a great many feet pounding upon the
stairs. He tried to ignore the excited shouts and concentrate on the
legalistic wording of the document he held, but the ruckus persisted and
in frustration he threw the parchment onto his desk and stood up. At
that moment there was a hurried knocking at the door.

‘What?’ he demanded.

The door was flung open by Yeasir, who stepped into the room with a
hasty bow.

‘I am trying to concentrate,’ the prince growled.

‘Forgive the disturbance, your highness,’ said Yeasir breathlessly,
bowing again with more decorum. ‘Please look out of your window.’

‘My window?’ said Malekith.

The prince turned and strode to the open casement and stepped out onto
the small balcony beyond. He stared down at the street below and saw
crowds of elves hastening through the streets towards the docks, some of
them running in their excitement. Raising his head, Malekith looked out
over the roofs of the warehouses to the harbour beyond.

It was a sunny spring day and the calm waters of the bay glittered in
the afternoon light. Dozens of ships bobbed at anchor in the middle of
the port, but all seemed calm and Malekith could see nothing amiss. Then
he turned his gaze further to the south and saw a line of black sails
approaching past the harbour wall.

Shielding his eyes against the glare, Malekith looked at the approaching
ships. There were ten of them, nine unremarkable but for the fact that
they flew silver and black pennants of Nagarythe at their mastheads. The
tenth was what caught Malekith’s attention, and the cause of so much
interest from the city folk below.

It glided across the waves without effort, four huge lateen sails filled
with the breeze, surf crashing around the gold-plated ram at its prow.
It was larger than any ship Malekith had ever before seen, in size as
large as a castle keep, spread over three hulls – one central structure
flanked by two outrigger hulls that were each the size of a warship.
Upon its deck stood high towers of dark-stained wood banded and trimmed
with shining gold. It was the finest vessel ever to have crossed the
seas, and Malekith was dumbstruck by its majesty and elegant lines.

Like a lion amongst scavenging dogs, the ship surged through the surf at
the heart of its fleet, before trimly tacking across the wind and
gracefully gliding towards the longest pier. The sound of clarions rang
out from across the waves from the other nine ships, heralding the
arrival of their leader.

Malekith fought the urge to leap straight from the balcony and run to
the docks, and instead turned and instructed Yeasir to fetch his cloak
and sword. He stood there tapping his fingers impatiently on the curved
parapet of the balcony, watching as the immense ship slid closer and
closer. He could now see the crew upon the deck, dressed in smart smocks
of red and white, straining at stays to keep the sails full. At some
unheard command, they jumped into action to furl the mainsail, slowing
the ship’s passage as it neared the wharf.

Yeasir entered again and fixed Malekith’s scabbard to his belt and hung
his purple cloak from his shoulders. Perhaps more hurriedly than he
realised, Malekith strode from the room and descended the long winding
stair at the centre of the tower. Guards at the doors flung them open at
his approach, and Malekith swept past them without a glance, intent on
the street outside.

It was thronged with people, and though many parted as they saw him
approach, some were so intent upon reaching the docks that they did not
note his appearance. Yeasir trotted ahead of his lord to clear them out
of the way, and as they realised their error they fell to their knees in
apology, and begged Malekith’s forgiveness as he strode past. In this
way, Yeasir swiftly cleared a path to the docks, but upon arriving at
the wharfs found the route utterly blocked by the press of elves who had
gathered here from all over the surrounding buildings.

A few realised the unmannerly obstruction they were causing, but could
only shrug and bow in apology, as they attempted to get out of the way
but could not due to the crowds behind them. Such was the hubbub that
Yeasir’s shouted commands were barely heard, and in the end Malekith
resorted to drastic measures.

Drawing Avanuir from its sheath, he held the fabled sword aloft, its tip
pointed towards the cloudless sky. With a word, the prince sent a pulse
of magic along the blade. The sorcery erupted into a bolt of flame that
shot high up into the air with a piercing screech, attracting the
attention of all.

Thus warned of their ruler’s approach, the elves began to make way as
best they could for the prince, some of them awkwardly leaping onto
boats that stood at the water’s edge, others pushing into buildings or
climbing onto awnings and balconies. As the waves parted before the prow
of the approaching ship, so the elves parted in the path of their
prince. With a satisfied nod, Malekith sheathed his sword and strode
forwards along the widening line between him and the docking vessel.

Malekith walked to the end of the curving pier of white planks and stood
with his hands on hips as the immense ship slowly slid around and came
alongside. Elves with thick hawsers in hand leapt lithely over the side
to the quay to secure the vessel. Amidships, a length of the gunwale
soundlessly swung upwards and a wide set of steps slid out of the gap to
touch down upon the pier. Malekith walked along the quay to stand at the
foot of the docking stairs.

Looking up onto the ship, the sun was behind the vessel, throwing the
sails and rigging into stark silhouette. A figure appeared at the top of
the ramp, tall and elegant, draped with silky ribbons that danced in the
sea breeze. As she strolled cat-like down the ramp, Malekith could see
his visitor more clearly, as young and beautiful as he had ever
remembered her: Morathi.

The widow of Aenarion walked languidly down from the ship and stopped
before Malekith, holding out a hand for him to help her down the last
step. He kissed the back of her hand and led her onto the quay, sweeping
his cloak out of the way as he did so. Morathi turned her face towards
him as they walked along the pier back to the dockside, and she smiled.

‘My wonderful son,’ she purred.

‘Precious mother,’ replied Malekith with a formal nod of the head.

As the crowd upon the harbour side could see more clearly, there was
shocked whispering, which spread from the end of the pier and out
through the assembled elves. A respectful silence then descended and the
only sound that could be heard was the cry of gulls in the air and the
lapping of the waves against the piles of the quays. Now the elves
surreptitiously crowded forwards again, those further back leaning
forwards and straining to get a look at the queen-regent of Nagarythe.
Many had been born in Athel Toralien and had never seen the seeress.

Mother and son walked serenely towards the tower where the prince had
been working, Morathi’s hand upon Malekith’s. Neither looked at the
other, but both gazed out to the crowd with beatific smiles. Malekith’s
expression was a mask hiding his true feelings, for inside he was in
turmoil but he could not show weakness.

Morathi’s arrival was most unexpected, and he feared what news she
brought. He could think of no reason that was pleasant why she would
have abandoned the comforts of Anlec for the colonies. Had she finally
driven Bel Shanaar too far and been forced into exile with her son? Was
Nagarythe threatened? The ship too was an enigma. It was clearly of
Naggarothi design, but no shipyard outside of Lothern was capable of
building such a behemoth. How had she come by such a prize, and what was
her intent?

Craving the answers to these questions, Malekith forced himself to pace
slowly through the streets, accepting the bows and waves of the adoring
crowds that were even now still growing in number.

The prince detected a certain smugness in his mother’s manner: a pride
that he felt was not wholly down to a mother meeting her son. Certainly
she had caused quite a stir with her arrival, and Malekith suspected
that this was in great part the source of her pleasure. Ever since
Malekith had been old enough to notice his mother, he had seen how
attention focused upon her, and how only Aenarion’s light had shone
brighter than hers. As a rock absorbs the heat of a summer midday sun,
so Morathi bathed in the quiet adulation of the elven masses of Athel
Toralien.

It was some time before they reached the tower overlooking the bay.
Glancing over his shoulder as they passed though the doors, Malekith saw
that Alandrian had joined Yeasir. He waved Morathi to proceed him up the
stairs and turned to his lieutenants.

‘Leave us for the moment,’ Malekith instructed them. ‘Do not go too far,
I will be calling for you shortly. Yeasir, please send someone to the
docks to ensure that my mother’s luggage and servants are taken to the
Palace of Stars. We will join her entourage there this evening.’

As the pair bowed and turned to leave, Malekith thought of something
else.

‘Best send word to my servants at the palace too, and the farmers,’
Malekith said, drawing confused looks from Alandrian and Yeasir. ‘My
mother will have brought many hangers-on, advisors and other menials.
There will be a lot of mouths to feed.’

Nodding in realisation, the pair left Malekith, who closed the doors to
the tower behind them, shutting out the gaping crowds.

Turning, he leapt up the stairs three at a time, chasing after his
mother. Despite his haste, Morathi was already standing beside the
balcony window by the time Malekith reached the top of the tower. She
turned and smiled as he strode into the room, and held out an arm for
him to hold. Sighing, the prince allowed his mother to lay her hand upon
his, and led her out onto the balcony. This time, the seeress-queen and
prince of Nagarythe were greeted with rapturous cheers and applause. The
streets were packed with elves in every direction, and windows and
balconies were full as the people of Athel Toralien sought the best
vantage point to see their mysterious, glamorous visitor.

‘What are you doing here?’ Malekith whispered as he waved to the adoring
crowds.

‘I have come to visit you, my wonderful son,’ replied Morathi, not
turning her smile from the masses below. ‘A mother worries, you know
that. Word came to me that you were heading off into the wilds for some
ridiculous adventures, so I thought it best that I finally visit your
new home before you left.’

‘You will not dissuade me,’ Malekith warned her. ‘I am ready to leave
within days.’

‘Dissuade you?’ said Morathi with a faint laugh. ‘Why would I not want
you to go? Was it not me that stood upon the quayside when you left
Nagarythe, and told you to earn glory and renown for yourself and your
people? Have you not done so, and have I not looked upon all that you
have achieved with great love and pride?’

‘Forgive my misunderstanding,’ said Malekith. ‘If you are here to lend
your support, then I am very grateful.’

Morathi did not reply straightaway, but instead indicated discreetly
that they should retire inside. With a final wave and a grin, Malekith
stepped off the balcony and his mother followed. Closing the window,
Malekith rounded on his mother.

‘So why is it that you are here?’ he asked, not with accusation but with
genuine curiosity.

‘It is not my support that you need, at least not in any physical way,’
Morathi replied.

Seeing his mother wave a hand towards the bottle upon the desk, Malekith
took a clean glass from one of the many cabinets in the room and poured
wine for Morathi. She took it with a nod, had a sip and then continued.

‘You have been away from Ulthuan for too long. I was of a mind to
persuade you to return rather than gallivanting across the wastes, but
then I realised that such a course of action would be a fool’s errand
and only earn me your enmity, perhaps even your disdain.’

‘You are right, I will not return to Ulthuan,’ said Malekith. ‘Why do
you think it is so important that I do so now?’

‘Not now, but soon,’ Morathi said. ‘I sense that Bel Shanaar’s rule is
fading. His usurpation of your relationship with the dwarfs was an
attempt to bolster his flagging fortunes. Now that the colonies are well
established, all of the kingdoms enjoy the comfort and wealth that the
realms overseas bring to us, Tiranoc no less so, nor more so than any
others. Nagarythe’s most adventurous spirits have departed the shores of
the isle, for new generations look to the likes of you to emulate, not
to the staid, overly sincere Bel Shanaar. In comfort there is frailty,
for a sword must be forged in the burning fires before it can rest in
its scabbard. There is no more fire in Ulthuan. Even as her empire
continues to grow, Ulthuan herself is diminishing.’

‘If Ulthuan has become lessened, then it is the fault of the princes who
rule there,’ said Malekith, pouring himself some wine.

‘That is my point,’ snapped Morathi. ‘There is none capable of
succeeding Bel Shanaar; his court is as weak as he is. Your achievements
here have been rightly lauded, but your success has been copied and
appropriated and demeaned by others. If only you had returned to us
before Bel Shanaar accorded himself and his rule with the dwarfs and
stole your victory. It is time to create a new legend for yourself, and
return in triumph to reclaim what is rightfully yours.’

‘What would you say if I told you that I wish never to return to
Ulthuan?’ said Malekith. ‘What if I have decided that my life is out
here, away from the coddling embrace of Ulthuan?’

‘Then I would curse you for a fool and cast you out of my life,’ said
Morathi. ‘But that is not really how you think. You do not like Ulthuan,
and I cannot blame you. She is like a maiden that you love, gripped
tightly within the arms of a less-deserving amour. But, just as you turn
away from that sight, within your heart still lingers that love for the
maiden, no matter what she does.’

‘You are right, of course,’ admitted Malekith. ‘She is like to me as a
lover who has spurned my attentions many times, and yet her gaze lingers
upon me always, tempting me with the notion that one day she will accept
my advances. However, if what you say is true, then perhaps it is too
late for me; the beauty of youth has faded and Ulthuan perhaps is on the
decline into infirmity and then a swift passing away. Perhaps it is
better this way, that we break our ties to that small isle, and reach
out to the wider world.’

Morathi strode across the room, her face a mask of fury, and slapped
Malekith across the cheek. In instinct he raised his hand to reply in
kind, but Morathi was as quick as a serpent and snatched his wrist in
her fingers, her long and sharpened nails digging so deep into the flesh
that blood trickled across her hand.

‘How dare you!’ the seeress hissed. ‘Your father gave his life for
Ulthuan, and it took his death to save her! I thought I had raised you
better than this. I thought that you had not become one of those
prancing, preening fools that pass as princes in Bel Shanaar’s court.
How dare you condemn Ulthuan to death by indifference! Your father laid
down his life to protect our isle, who are you to do different?’

Malekith snatched away his wrist with a snarl and made to turn, but
Morathi was relentless and grabbed his arm and spun him around to face
her.

‘You dare to turn your back on me, just as you turn your back on your
homeland!’ she snarled. ‘Perhaps the First Council was right not to
choose you; not because of a darkness upon you, but because you are weak
and undeserving.’

‘What more could I do?’ demanded Malekith. ‘I have conquered new lands
in the name of Nagarythe, and brokered the greatest alliance our people
will ever see. What more can I give to Ulthuan?’

‘Yourself,’ said Morathi. ‘When Aenarion died, he left Ulthuan a legacy,
and you are part of it. To rule is also to serve, Aenarion understood
that. He served Khaine, for there was no other master worthy of his
fealty. You must be prepared to serve a high purpose, a great power.’

Morathi paused and took a deep breath, calming herself. When she
continued her voice was low but insistent.

‘Serve Ulthuan and you will be Phoenix King. Protect her from enemies
outside and within and she will embrace you in return. Go into the north
and learn of the race of men. Head into the chilling wastes and confront
the Dark Gods that hunger over our world. Then return to Ulthuan and
take up your place as ruler, to shield us against their unnatural
thirst. I fear that only you can protect us against the dangers I have
foreseen. I see fire and bloodshed sweeping Ulthuan again. The colonies
will burn and all that we hold dear will be cast upon the rocks and be
for naught.’

‘What have you seen, when will this happen?’ asked Malekith.

‘You know that there is no future that is certain,’ replied Morathi. ‘I
have simply cast my gaze ahead along the path of my life, and I see
death. War will come again and the Naggarothi will be called upon as
they were by your father. I warned the First Council that it would be
so, but they did not listen. You must learn what you can of Chaos, and
of humans, for our future is entwined with both. When you are master of
your fate, then return to us and take what has been kept from you for so
long. Let Anlec be a beacon of hope again.’

Malekith saw desire and fear in equal measure in the face of his mother,
and his love for her stirred him. He laid an arm about her shoulders and
pulled her close to him. She quivered, though whether from anxiety or
excitement he could not tell.

‘It shall be as you say,’ said Malekith. ‘I shall go into the north and
seek whatever destiny awaits me there. I will return to Ulthuan, and I
will guard her against whatever comes to pass.’

‘And I have a steed worthy of such a journey,’ said Morathi, pulling
away from her son and leading him by the hand back to the window. She
pointed out towards the bay, to the huge ship that now lay in a berth
along the quayside.

‘She is Indraugnir, named after the dragon whom your father befriended
and from whose back he fought against the daemons. The two of them died
together upon the Blighted Isle, after Aenarion returned the Godslayer
to its black altar. It is not yet time for you to ride upon the dragon,
but this dragonship shall suffice in the meantime. That fabled name will
not go unnoticed by the folk of Ulthuan.’

‘She is a magnificent vessel,’ said Malekith. ‘Yet for all of her glory,
she is beyond the means of the Naggarothi to build. I do not understand
how she came to be made.’

‘We spoke of Ulthuan as a coquettish maiden, and she is,’ said Morathi.
‘There are many princes who admire her, and who are willing to aid her
when she asks in return for the promise of favour. Prince Aeltherin of
Lothern is one such admirer, and it is he who built the first of the
dragonships and gifted her to you. Others will be built in the shipyards
of Lothern over the coming years, but Indraugnir is the first and ever
will be the greatest in the eyes and dreams of our people.’

‘So, you have allies outside of Nagarythe,’ said Malekith.

‘Many,’ replied Morathi. ‘Some of the princes of the First Council are
dead, by war or age, and their sons now wonder whether their fathers
chose rightly. Not all were happy at the time, and a thousand years is a
long while to be reigned over by a lesser ruler than Aenarion. There is
support for us in every kingdom and across the colonies. The frustration
of the common folk builds, for while they live in comfort, their inner
spirits are unsatisfied. I do what I can to lift them, to provide their
lives with purpose and meaning, but they now live in a world far removed
from the times of hunger, fear and deprivation that we knew many
centuries ago. They live in idyllic palaces surrounded by a garden
paradise, yet many see it for the gilded cage that Ulthuan has become.
We pray to the gods for direction, and they answer me through their
visions and dreams.’

‘I hear much that concerns the gods and your prayers,’ said Malekith.
‘You tempt fate by courting the twilight pantheon. The likes of
Morai-heg and Nethu are not to be toyed with. My father paid a heavy
price for the favours of Khaine; do not underestimate the forces you
play with.’

‘There is no need to be afraid,’ said Morathi. ‘Only true priests and
priestesses perform the actual dark rituals. For the most part these
ceremonies are little more than gatherings for feasting and gossiping.
Only Bel Shanaar and his deceptively pious coterie feign outrage at some
of the rituals, but they know as well as you and I do that Atharti,
Hekarti and others cannot be ignored. It is only because we still value
the old traditions and the ancient customs in Nagarythe that we are able
to perform these rituals at all. Someone must be guardian of the
forgotten paths, and if that means that the other kingdoms must turn to
us on occasion, then that is all the better.’

‘If you move against Bel Shanaar, it will be treason,’ said Malekith. ‘I
know that you seek to undermine his power and influence. Be careful that
you do not destroy Nagarythe in the process. No prince of Ulthuan will
betray the Phoenix King, and if you move too fast, you will leave
Nagarythe friendless and weak.’

‘I will make no moves at all,’ said Morathi, sitting down in the chair
behind Malekith’s desk. She swept her long black hair over her shoulder
and looked at her son. ‘The position of Phoenix King should always
command great respect and authority. I would not erode the power of the
Phoenix King and leave you a tarnished crown worth less than a copper
cap. It is Bel Shanaar that will be found weak, not his rank, and in
time the princes will entreat us to help them. Upon the wave of their
desire and need will you be swept to the Phoenix Throne and the power of
Anlec rightfully restored. I am merely the means for you to achieve
this. I cannot become Phoenix King. Only you, the son of Aenarion, can
claim what is yours; it cannot now be given, it must be taken.’

Malekith pondered these words in silence, refilling his glass. He walked
to the window and gazed at Indraugnir. It was well named, for just as
the dragon of his father was a foundation of the stories told about him,
so too would this ship become a pillar upon which to build the story of
Malekith. His mother was deft at manipulating popular opinion, and
recapturing the imagination of Ulthuan with this new ship, stirring up
the oldest tales of courage and heroism from the time of the first
Phoenix King, would set the stage for whatever adventures next befell
Malekith.

Yet there are only so many times and so often one can return to the well
before it eventually runs dry, and Malekith knew that Morathi’s sway
over the other princes waned the more she used it. If Bel Shanaar was
replaced by another elected Phoenix King, not of Aenarion’s line, the
precedent set by Bel Shanaar would be sealed in tradition; it would end
all hope for Malekith to see Anlec as capital once more.

‘And what of the Everqueen?’ asked Malekith after much thought. ‘Should
I succeed Bel Shanaar, I cannot marry my half-sister.’

‘It is of no consequence,’ said Morathi. ‘I have persuaded many of your
fellow princes that Bel Shanaar’s marriage to Yvraine is merely a
technicality required because the Phoenix King must be of the line of
Aenarion. You are his son and have no need to marry into the bloodline.
If we oppose it, there will be little support for such a sham marriage
to be repeated. Though there was once a dream that we might return to
the peace of the Everqueen’s reign shortly after the war with the
daemons, there are few of us surviving now that can even remember the
time before Aenarion. The Everqueen is a figurehead and nothing more,
the real political power of Ulthuan lies not in Avelorn but in Tor
Anroc. She is irrelevant, a priestess raised above her station.’

‘What of Morelion?’ said Malekith.

‘Aenarion’s first son lives in solitude in the islands to the east,’
Morathi said. ‘He has no will to succeed Aenarion, and even if he did he
has not the resource nor influence to make a serious bid for the Phoenix
Throne. Trust me, and trust in Nagarythe. When you wish to resume your
father’s duties, there will be those of us ready to raise you up to
where you belong.’

‘Then I shall await the will of the gods,’ said Malekith. ‘When the sign
comes, I will know it. I shall bring Ulthuan back to greatness and the
memory of my reign will echo down through the centuries as loudly as my
father’s.’

‘Good,’ said Morathi with an amused smile. ‘Now, which of your palaces
do you recommend to your weary mother?’

As Malekith had expected, Morathi was accompanied by a great many
retainers: guards, cooks, entertainers, gardeners, food tasters,
painters, poets, chroniclers, actors, costumiers, handmaidens,
dressmakers, acolytes, soothsayers, priests and priestesses. There were
nearly seven hundred in all. All came directly from Nagarythe, and were
unlike anything the colonists of Athel Toralien had seen before.

For several decades there had been fewer and fewer émigrés from Ulthuan,
and so the most recent styles and fashions remained unseen. Morathi
deplored the sheep-like mentality of those elves that followed court
styles so slavishly, but was never one to miss an opportunity and so she
exploited the somewhat fickle nature of elven taste whenever it suited
her.

The seer-queen had carefully cultivated a reputation as a trend-setter
and paragon of exquisite aesthetic. She was always at the forefront when
it came to patronising an up-and-coming singer or poet, or endorsing
some risqué but popular movement. In this way, Morathi managed to appear
to move with the times, while Bel Shanaar and his supporters seemed
outdated and staid. It helped that through her sorcery, Morathi never
appeared to age a single day, even less so than any long-lived elf,
while almost imperceptibly the years crept up on the Phoenix King. To
young and old alike, Morathi was ever the perfect blend: a guardian of
tradition whilst also being a forward-thinking visionary.

Her huge entourage reflected the wide variety of concerns and movements
with which Morathi involved herself. From satirical poets who moped
about the wine houses hidden behind white veils, to outlandishly
tattooed jugglers and fire-eaters who entertained in the plazas, the
hundreds of Morathi’s followers made their presence felt all across
Athel Toralien. Most prominently it was the arrival of the priests and
priestesses that changed the city.

Malekith had resisted such developments in Athel Toralien, having been
raised by his father to be distrustful of the priesthoods who had denied
Aenarion the guidance he had sought. Although Malekith never openly
opposed any temple or shrine, he ensured that a priest establishing any
such building within the boundaries of his lands soon fell out of
favour. Followers were hard to come by under such circumstances and most
priests left within a season of their arrival. With the coming of
Morathi’s entourage it was as if a flood gate had been opened as priests
and priestesses of all descriptions began plying their trade in the
city.

In the earliest days of the Everqueen, the elves had worshipped and
placated their gods at certain places on Ulthuan sacred to each of them.
Elves would travel to these holy grottos, auspicious streams and
sinister caves and peaks to entreat with the gods or to offer their
praise.

With the elves now spread across the world, Morathi had slowly
revolutionised the role of the priesthood. Once they had tended to the
shrines that had grown over the sacred sites down through the years.
Through Morathi’s manipulation, now they were vessels of the gods’
power. All were ordained in the time-honoured fashions of the past, but
now rather than elves making pilgrimages to the holy places, the priests
took the blessings of their gods out across the globe, so that all might
still worship Asuryan and Kurnous, Isha and Lileath. Priests could now
find spots sacred to their gods in the wider world, and even in the
cities of Ulthuan shrines and temples were founded.

Long denied a spiritual release, the citizens of Athel Toralien embraced
these newcomers and flooded to their rituals. When the prince complained
to Morathi one morning, she laughed away his concerns.

‘Your distaste for religion is quite unnatural, Malekith,’ the
seeress-queen said. The pair walked upon the outermost wall of the city,
gazing out across the wind-tossed ocean. ‘If you are to rid yourself of
your loathing, you will have to overcome your unspoken fears.’

‘I am not afraid of priests,’ Malekith snorted.

‘Yet you never enter a shrine, nor give a moment’s praise to the gods,’
said Morathi, stopping and leaning her back against the parapet so that
the low sun blazed down onto her fair skin. ‘Perhaps it is the gods that
scare you?’

‘The gods have never favoured Nagarythe, I see no reason to debase
myself in their name,’ the prince countered.

‘Yet the gods have their part to play in your life,’ Morathi warned. ‘It
was Asuryan’s blessing that made your father the Phoenix King. It was
the blade of Khaine that he wielded to free our isle. His first wife was
the chosen of Isha. Your blood calls to the gods, and in turn they call
to your blood.’

‘There are other, stranger and stronger gods now,’ said Malekith, his
gaze unconsciously straying to the north, to the unseen Realm of Chaos.
‘I fear that even Asuryan is now humbled.’

‘Then if not for your spirit, embrace the gods for your power,’ Morathi
said. ‘By participating and sponsoring religion, as I have done, you
will come to control that from which you are currently distanced. It
matters not whether you believe the gods are listening. The important
point to remember is that your people do. If they believe you have the
favour of the gods, their dedication and loyalty is that much stronger.’

‘I will not rule with falsehood,’ Malekith said. ‘One day we will be
free of the gods and the better for it.’

Morathi said nothing in reply, but her face expressed her doubt without
words.

As the time to leave Athel Toralien approached ever closer, Malekith
fretted more and more, wishing to be gone. Morathi’s arrival had
disrupted all routine and semblance of order in the city, as Malekith
knew it had been intended to. Knowing how fickle elves could be at
times, Morathi had ensured that the spectacle of her arrival, her gift
of Indraugnir and Malekith’s departure would all blend together into a
story that would stick in the memory and be debated in the city for many
years to come.

Of her vast entourage, only a few handmaidens and gifted seers were
returning to Ulthuan with the queen. The rest were, as she put it, her
gift to Athel Toralien and the other cities of the east. She had ensured
that though Malekith was leaving the colonies that he had almost
single-handedly created, his name would live on there in his absence.

When it came to the time for the expedition of Malekith to leave, the
Naggarothi prince stood upon the deck of Indraugnir as she swayed at
anchor in the harbour of Athel Toralien. Alandrian stood with him, as
did Yeasir. Morathi was in one of the spacious cabins preparing for the
voyage. The three of them looked out over the city, which was more than
ten times the size it had been when they had first sailed into the
anchorage more than thirteen hundred years before. All knew how much
things had changed in that time, and they shared the memory of it
without having to say a word.

‘Where will you go?’ asked Alandrian.

‘Out to the snow and the ice,’ Malekith said, pointing to the north and
west. ‘I go to meet my fate, whether glorious or ignoble.’

‘It will be glorious, of that I am sure,’ said Alandrian with good
humour. ‘You have been marked by the gods for great things, my prince.
It is in your blood to bestride history like a colossus while we mere
mortals must labour in your immense shadow!’

‘Well, my shadow and I will be moving along shortly,’ said Malekith with
a smile. ‘Feel free to enjoy what warmth and light you can in my
absence. If what you say is true, then when I will return I shall
eclipse the sun and the moons from several miles away!’

The tide was fair and the prince bid Alandrian farewell. The two parted
with Alandrian promising he would keep the city safe, and renewing his
loyalty to Nagarythe. Morathi came up on deck just as they were about to
depart, to wave to the adulalatory crowds who again lined the dockside
to see her. With the wind filling her sails, Indraugnir got under way,
and by noon the city was out of sight below the horizon.
