
TWENTY-ONE


A Destiny Manifested

The closer Malekith and his host drew to the central palace, the more
disturbing Anlec became. Many of the buildings here had been turned into
immense charnel temples, their steps stained dark with blood, the
entrails and bones of the cultists’ victims hung upon their walls as
decoration. Hundreds of braziers burned fitfully, spewing noxious, acrid
fumes through the streets. The air itself clung with the stench of death
and all was silent save for the crackling of flames and the tread of the
warriors on the bloodstained tiles of the streets. They came at last
upon the palace of Aenarion, a large building that doubled as the
central citadel of Anlec. It appeared deserted, and the broad doors were
opened wide. Dismembered skeletons, rotting organs and other detritus
littered the steps leading up to the entrance.

Malekith stopped at the foot of the steps and looked up into the
beckoning door, seeking an ambush. Lanterns glowed with ruddy light from
within, but there was no sign of any other living thing.

Slowly, Malekith ascended the steps, Avanuir in hand. His knights
dismounted and followed a short way behind, similarly ready for attack.
Malekith paused before he stepped across the threshold and checked one
more time for hidden attackers. Satisfied that there was no immediate
threat, he strode through the doors into the chamber beyond.

It was as he remembered from a millennium ago. A long colonnaded hall
led away from the doors, much like a larger version of the entrance of
Ealith’s keep. There was no evidence of the murder and slaughter of the
rest of the city here. The floor was a vast mosaic of a golden blade
upon a storm-filled sky, and Malekith remembered it from when he was a
child.

He had crawled upon this floor and happily stroked the golden tiles even
as his father had told him of its story, for it was a depiction of a
dream, the vision that had beset Malekith’s father and spurred him to
take up the war against the daemons. Though his father had not known it
at the time, it had been the Sword of Khaine calling to him, from
hundreds of leagues distant, suddenly awoken from its eons-long slumber
by the anger of Aenarion.

The slamming of the doors behind him shattered Malekith’s thoughts and
he spun around, expecting attack. He heard thuds and thumps as his
followers outside attempted to open them, but Malekith knew it would be
fruitless; the tinge of ancient magic hung about the portal, spells laid
upon it in the time of Caledor.

‘Come to me,’ a voice echoed along the empty halls, and Malekith
recognised his mother’s tone.

Still wary of attack, Malekith stalked along the hallway, all childhood
thoughts forgotten. His eyes roved across the archways and high
galleries, seeking any sign of a hidden assassin, but there was none.
Passing through the great doorway at the end of the entrance hall,
Malekith came to an antechamber from which two sets of stairs spiralled
upwards to the left and right.

The one on the left led to the bedchambers, guardhouses and other
domestic rooms on the first floor, while the stair to the right wound
higher to the throne room of Aenarion. Without hesitation, Malekith
turned to his right and slowly ascended the marble stair, a carpet of
deep blue running down its centre. His footfalls made no sound as he
walked, and in the silence there came a noise on the very edge of his
hearing.

It was weeping, a constant low sob. Stopping, Malekith listened more
intently but the noise could be heard no more. Walking again, Malekith
heard a distant, dim shriek and a yammering for mercy. Halting once more
to listen, the sound faded away again, leaving only silence.

‘Spare us!’ said a voice behind Malekith, and he spun, sword in hand,
but there was nothing there.

‘Mercy!’ pleaded a whisper in Malekith’s right ear, but turning his head
he saw only empty air.

‘Not the blade!’

‘Free us!’

‘Give us peace!’

‘Justice!’

‘Show us pity!’

Malekith twisted left and right, seeking the source of the voices, but
he was alone on the stairway.

‘Begone,’ the prince growled, holding up Avanuir.

In the flickering glow of the blade, Malekith finally saw movement:
ghostly figures dimly reflecting the blue glare of Avanuir’s fire. He
could see the spirits only in glimpses, and saw flashes of headless
bodies, children with their hearts ripped out, mutilated women and
victims of all kinds of vile torture. They reached out with broken
hands, skin hanging in flaps from mutilated arms. Some were eyeless,
others had their mouths stitched shut or their cheeks pierced with
spikes.

‘Get away from me!’ snarled Malekith, turning and leaping up the stairs,
casting glances over his shoulder as he hurried upwards. The swirling
ghosts chased the prince up the steps and he slashed at them with
Avanuir, parting their insubstantial forms with its glowing blade.

Panting, he reached the upper landing and stood before the high double
doors that led to the throne room. Soundlessly, they opened inwards,
­bathing Malekith in the golden light from many lanterns within.

At the far end of the hall sat Morathi, clad in a draping wind of golden
cloth that obscured very little of her nakedness. She held her staff of
bone and iron across her lap, her fingers toying with the skull at its
tip. Morathi sat in a simple wooden chair next to the mighty throne of
Aenarion; which was cut from a single piece of black granite, its back
shaped like a rearing dragon, of which Bel Shanaar’s throne was but a
pale imitation. Magical flame licked from the dragon’s fanged maw and
glowed in its eyes.

Malekith’s eyes were drawn to the throne above all other things,
ignoring even his mother, for this was the strongest memory he had of
this place; of his father girded for war sat upon that immense chair, in
counsel with his famed generals.

The memory was so vivid that Malekith could hear his father’s soft yet
strong voice echoing around the throne room. The prince was but a child,
sat in the lap of his mother beside the Phoenix King, and Aenarion would
occasionally pause in his conversation and look down upon his son.
Always stern was that look; not unkind, yet not compassionate either,
but full of pride. For years Malekith had gazed back at those strong,
dark eyes and seen the fires that raged behind their quiet dignity.
Malekith imagined that he alone knew the sinister spirit that hid
within, clothed in the body of a noble monarch, masked against the eyes
of the world lest it be recognised for what it truly was.

The soul of a destroyer, the wielder of the Godslayer.

And the sword! There across the Phoenix King’s lap lay Widowmaker,
Soulbiter, the Sword of Khaine. Even at a young age, Malekith had
noticed that only he and his father ever looked upon its blood-red
blade, for all other elves averted their gaze and would look anywhere
else but directly at it. It was like a secret shared between them.

‘Yet you did not pick up the Blade of Murder when it was offered to
you,’ said Morathi, dispelling the illusion that had so gripped her son.

Malekith shook his head, confused by the enchantment cunningly wrought
upon him by his mother. Truly they were real memories she had stirred,
but her spell had made them as tangible as life, if only for a moment.

‘I did not,’ replied Malekith, slowly, realising that Morathi had seen
into his thoughts and learned of his episode on the Blighted Isle, of
which he had spoken to nobody.

‘That is good,’ said Morathi. She was sat in stately pose, despite her
near-nudity, and exuded regal poise. Not here the barbarous priestess
who tore living hearts from the breasts of her victims; not the
seductive, wily seeress who wove lies with every word and manipulated
all around her into a tapestry to her liking. Here she was as queen of
Nagarythe, full of quiet majesty and grandeur.

‘The sword controlled your father,’ the queen said, her tone hushed,
reassuring. ‘Since his death, it has yearned for you to seek it out. I
was worried that you would be ensnared by its power as well, but I am
proud that you resisted its bloodthirsty call. None can truly be its
master, and if you are to rule, then you must be master of everything.’

‘I would rather the world was devoured by daemons than unleash that fell
creation upon it again,’ Malekith said, sheathing Avanuir. ‘As you say,
once drawn it will consume its wielder until nothing but blood remains.
No person can become a king with its power, only a slave.’

‘Sit down,’ Morathi said, waving a hand of invitation towards the grand
throne.

‘It is not yet my place to sit there,’ replied Malekith.

‘Oh?’ said Morathi, surprised. ‘And why is that?’

‘If I am to rule Nagarythe, I shall rule it alone,’ said Malekith.
‘Without you. When you are slain, the army of Nagarythe will be mine
again. I shall hold power over the pleasure cults and with them secure
the Phoenix Throne.’

Morathi remained silent for a moment, looking at her son with ancient
eyes, gauging his mood and motive. A sly smile then twisted her lips.

‘You mean to slay me?’ she whispered, feigning shock.

‘While you live, always will your ambition be a shadow upon mine,’ said
Malekith, angry at his mother’s charade. ‘You cannot help but be my
rival, for it is not in your nature to serve any but yourself. I cannot
share Ulthuan with you, for you could never truly share it with me. Even
my father was not your master. I would exile you, but you would rise up
again in some forgotten corner, a contender for everything that I aspire
to.’

‘Cannot share power,’ Morathi said, ‘or will not?’

Malekith pondered for a moment, examining his feelings.

‘Will not,’ he replied, his eyes full of intent.

‘And to what is it that you aspire, my son?’ Morathi said, leaning
forwards eagerly.

‘To inherit my father’s legacy and rule as Phoenix King,’ Malekith
replied, knowing the truth of the words even as he spoke them. Never
before had he so openly admitted his desire, not even to himself. Glory,
honour, renown; all but stepping stones towards his ascension to the
Phoenix Throne. The circlet had revealed to him the true nature of the
forces that now ruled the world, and he would not stand by while Ulthuan
slowly succumbed to them.

‘Yes, Chaos is strong,’ Morathi told him.

‘Stay out of my thoughts,’ Malekith snarled, taking an angry step
forwards, his hand straying to the hilt of Avanuir.

‘I need no magic to know your mind, Malekith,’ said Morathi, still
gazing fixedly at her son. ‘There is a bond between mother and son that
does not need sorcery.’

‘Do you submit yourself to your fate?’ Malekith said, ignoring her
obvious reminder of their relationship; an attempt to stay his hand.

‘You should know better than ask such a pointless question,’ Morathi
replied, and now her voice was stern, harsh even. ‘Have I not always
told you that you were destined to be king? You cannot be king unless
you are prince of your own realm, and I will not surrender it willingly.
Prove to me that you are worthy of ruling Nagarythe. Prove to the other
princes that the strength within you is greater than any other.’

At some silent command, four figures emerged from the shadows, two to
Malekith’s left and two to his right. They were sorcerers by their garb,
two male and two female, swathed in black robes, tattooed with dark
sigils.

Malekith struck out with a blast of magic, materialising as a
thunderbolt from his fingertips. Instantly Morathi was surrounded by a
shadowy sphere of energy, which pulsed as the bolt struck it. Her adepts
unleashed spells of their own, fiery blasts that rushed in upon Malekith
in the guise of howling wolf heads, and the prince cast his own shield
of darkness to ward them away.

The sorcerers and sorceresses closed in, hurling fireballs and flares of
dark power. Malekith protected himself, drawing in more and more magic
from the energy seething around the throne room as the spells cascaded
towards him.

Morathi sat contentedly upon her chair while her followers unleashed
their hexes and curses, watching with interest as Malekith countered
each. Churning and bubbling, magic flowed around the hall, growing in
intensity as both Malekith and his foes reached their minds out further
and further, drawing energy from the city outside.

‘Enough,’ barked Malekith, letting free the energy that he had pulled
into himself, releasing a blast of raw magic not shaped by any spell.

The power blazed, surrounding each of the dark wizards, filling them
with mystical energy; more than they could control. The first, a
red-haired witch, began to quiver, and then spasmed so hard that
Malekith heard her spine snapping as she flopped to the ground. The
other sorceress screeched in agony as her blood turned to fire and
exploded out of her veins, engulfing her in a tempest of lightning and
flames. The third of them flew into the air as if struck, his nose, eyes
and ears streaming with blood, his ragged body smashing against the
distant wall. The last was consumed by the ravening magic and collapsed
in upon himself, crumpled like a ball of paper until he disintegrated
into a pile of dust.

‘Your followers are weak,’ said Malekith, rounding on Morathi.

The seeress remained unconcerned.

‘There are always more minions,’ she said with a dismissive wave of a
beringed hand. ‘That trinket upon your head gives you impressive power,
but you lack subtlety and control.’

Quicker than Malekith’s eye could follow, Morathi’s hand snapped out,
her staff pointed at his chest. He fell to one knee as his heart began
to thunder inside his ribs, drowning him with pain. Through the haze of
agony, Malekith could feel the slender tendrils of magic that extended
from Morathi’s staff, almost imperceptible in their delicacy.

Whispering a counterspell, Malekith chopped his hand through the
intangible strands and forced himself back to his feet.

‘You never taught me that,’ said Malekith with mock admonition. ‘How
unmotherly to keep such secrets from your son.’

‘You have not been here to learn from me,’ Morathi said with a sad shake
of her head. ‘I have learned much these past thousand years. If you put
aside this foolish jealousy that consumes you, then perhaps I can tutor
you again.’

In reply, Malekith gathered up the coiling magic and hurled it at the
queen, the spell materialising as a monstrous serpent. Morathi’s staff
intercepted it, a shimmering blade springing from its haft to slice the
head from the immaterial snake.

‘Crude,’ she said with a wag of her finger. ‘Perhaps you impressed the
savages of Elthin Arvan and the wizardless dwarfs with these antics, but
I am not so easily awed.’

Standing, the seeress-queen held her staff in both hands above her head
and began to chant quickly. Blades crystallised out of the air around
her, orbiting her body in ever-increasing numbers until she was all but
obscured from view by a whirlwind of icy razors. With a contemptuous
laugh, Malekith extended his will, looking to knock them aside.

His dispel met with failure, however, as Morathi’s magic swayed and
changed shape, slipping through the insubstantial grasp of his
counterspell. A moment later and the shardstorm tore through the air
towards him, forcing the prince to leap aside lest they rip the flesh
from his bones.

‘Slow and predictable, my child,’ Morathi said, stepping forwards.

Malekith said nothing, but lashed out with his sorcery, a whip of fire
appearing in his hands. Its twin tips flew across the room and coiled
about Morathi’s staff. With a flick of his wrist, Malekith wrested the
rod from his mother, sending it skittering across the tiled floor. With
another short hand motion Malekith dashed the staff against the wall,
shattering it into pieces.

‘I think you are too old for such toys,’ said Malekith, drawing Avanuir.

‘I am,’ snarled Morathi, her face contorting with genuine anger.

Something invisible scythed through the air and connected with
Malekith’s legs. He felt his shins crack and his knees shatter and a
howl of pain was wrenched from his lips as he crashed to the floor.
Letting Avanuir fall from his grasp, he clutched at his broken legs,
writhing and screaming.

‘Stop making such a noise,’ said Morathi irritably.

Making a fist, she wove a spell that clenched Malekith’s throat in its
grip, choking him. The pain befuddled his mind, and as he flailed and
gasped he could not muster the concentration to counter the spell.

‘Focus, boy, focus,’ spat Morathi as she stalked forwards, her fist held
out in front of her, twisting it left and right as Malekith squirmed in
her mystical grasp. ‘You think you are fit to rule without me? I expect
such ingratitude from the likes of Bel Shanaar, but not from my own
kin.’

The mention of the Phoenix King’s name acted as a lightning rod for
Malekith’s pain and anger, and he lashed out, a sheet of flame erupting
from him to engulf the queen. She was unharmed, but had released her
spell to protect herself. Malekith rolled to his side, coughing and
spluttering.

The prince was then flipped to his back and he felt a great weight upon
his chest. Numbness enveloped him as the weight pressed down harder and
harder, and Malekith fought against losing consciousness. As black spots
and bright lights flickered in his vision, he thought he glimpsed a
shadowy, insubstantial creature crouched upon his chest: a slavering
horned daemon with a wide, fang-filled maw and three eyes. Pushing aside
the aching of his body, he tried to focus his mind, but his body would
not move.

Morathi stood beside her son, looking down dispassionately. She reached
down and grasped Malekith’s helm in one hand and pulled it from his
head. The queen regarded it closely for a moment, her eyes analysing
every scratch and dint in its grey surface, her fingers lingering close
to the circlet but never touching it. Gently, she crouched beside
Malekith and placed the helm behind her, out of reach. Malekith fought
back a surge of panic. He felt strangely naked and powerless without the
circlet.

‘If you do not know how to use it properly, you should not have it,’ she
said gently. She laid a hand upon his cheek, caressing him, and then
placed her fingers upon his forehead as a mother soothing the brow of a
fevered child. ‘If you had but asked me, I would have helped you unlock
its real power. Without it, your magic is weak and unrefined. You should
have paid more attention to what your mother taught you.’

‘Perhaps,’ Malekith said. With a shout of pain, he swung his gauntleted
fist at Morathi, punching her clean in her face and sending her slamming
to her back. ‘I learned that from my father!’

Stunned, Morathi lost her concentration and her spell evaporated.
Malekith felt the invisible weight lifting from his body. With an
effort, he drew magic down into his ruined legs, fusing bone back into
place, knotting muscle and sinew together.

Whole again, the prince stood, looming over Morathi. With a flick of his
hand, Avanuir jumped from the floor and landed in his grasp, its point a
finger’s breadth from Morathi’s face, unwavering.

His face grimly set, he swung Avanuir over his left shoulder and brought
it down in a backhand sweep towards Morathi’s neck.

‘Wait!’ she shouted and Malekith’s arm froze, the blade no more than a
hand’s span from the killing blow.

It was no spell that had stayed his hand, but the tone in her voice. It
was not desperation or fear, but anger and frustration, as she had used
so many times before when he was a child about to do something wrong.

‘What?’ he asked, confused by his own reaction.

‘Use your mind, think about what is for the best,’ said Morathi slowly.
‘How will this truly aid you?’

‘What do you mean?’ Malekith said with narrowed eyes full of suspicion.
He lowered Avanuir but kept the blade ready to strike the moment he
detected the merest hint of a conjuration.

‘Do you think that killing me will give you the throne of Nagarythe?’
Morathi said, lying as still as a statue, her gaze never moving from her
son’s eyes. ‘Do you think that my death will usher you to the rule of
Ulthuan?’

‘It cannot harm my cause,’ Malekith said with a shrug.

‘But it will not help it,’ Morathi said. ‘Slay me here, unseen by any
other, and the truth of your victory will never really be known.
“Malekith slew his mother,” the chronicles will say, and then the deed
will be forgotten, hidden away like a shameful secret.’

‘And if I let you live?’ Malekith asked warily.

‘I will turn the cults to your bidding,’ said Morathi. ‘You cannot hope
to control them, and without me they will splinter and either turn
against you or simply vanish altogether.’

‘If I let you live, you will use the cults of luxury against me,’ said
Malekith. ‘You will undermine my power even as it grows until I am
forced to treat with you. Do not think I will be so easily fooled.
Better that you die here even if it means I must start afresh.’

‘There is another way, Malekith,’ Morathi told him. ‘For the cults, you
can imprison me as hostage against their loyalty. What better symbol of
your new power than to see the sorceress-queen of Nagarythe bound in
chains? Better yet, present me as your captive to Bel Shanaar. Your
mercy will earn you great credit in the court of the Phoenix King and
amongst the other realms. Would you be known to them as a merciless
killer, or as a magnanimous victor? Which do you think they would choose
as Bel Shanaar’s successor? They have scorned your inheritance once
already, naming you as a bloody slayer unfit to rule. Will the blood of
your mother change their minds?’

‘I care not concerning the opinions of lesser princes,’ said Malekith,
raising Avanuir again to strike.

‘Then you are a fool!’ spat Morathi. ‘If you would wrest the crown of
Ulthuan by force, then go now to the Blighted Isle and take up the sword
your father wielded, for you will need it. If you would perhaps take up
your rightful inheritance and reign in glory, then you must make the
other princes your followers. Already they look up to you; many would
have you replace Bel Shanaar right at this moment. Woo them! Show them
your kingly virtues, and the blood of Aenarion will prove its worth.’

For a second time, Malekith lowered his blade. He looked deep into his
mother’s eyes, seeking some deceit or falsehood, but saw only sincerity.

‘You would be humbled before all of Ulthuan,’ Malekith said. ‘Your
station, your rank would be worthless.’

‘I care as little about such matters as you,’ Morathi said. ‘I am
confident in you, and have much patience. When you become Phoenix King,
I will be rightfully restored to my proper position. I have humbled
myself before priests and gods to gain what I have. It is no hardship to
masquerade for a while as prisoner to Bel Shanaar.’

Malekith sheathed Avanuir and lifted his mother to her feet. He laid a
hand upon her shoulder and pulled her close.

‘I will spare you,’ he whispered to her. ‘But if you wrong me, or play
me false, I shall kill you without a second thought.’

Morathi clasped her son in a tight embrace, a hand on the back of his
head, her lips close to his ear.

‘You have proven that to me,’ she sighed. ‘That is why I am so proud of
you.’
