
TWENTY 

A Fateful Clash

It was Dorien that voiced the concern in the minds of all the princes.
They were gathered outside Caledor’s pavilion, dressed in full armour,
cloaks swirling in the strengthening breeze.

‘Can we win?’ asked the Caledorian prince. It was Dorien who had first
seen the dark blot on the horizon from the back of his dragon and
reported the druchii army waiting to the west. ‘For years we have
avoided this clash, by your desire and command.’

‘We must win,’ replied Caledor. ‘If not now, then never. To retreat
would be to admit defeat and destroy the morale of the army.’

That army was gathering on the rugged heathland of Maledor. Every
kingdom loyal to Caledor was represented. Spearmen and archers from
every realm gathered beneath standards displaying the colours and runes
of their princes. Amongst them were the serried companies of the Lothern
Sea Guard, decked in armour that shimmered like fish scales, armed with
both spear and bow, their robes and banners of sea green and turquoise
picking them out amongst the expanse of white-clad soldiers.

Knights of Caledor and Eataine formed up in long squadrons, their lances
decorated with bright pennants, their silver helms adorned with fabulous
crests of feathers. Batteries of bolt throwers were erected, protecting
the flanks of the mustering host.

Overhead flew the pegasi of Saphery, Thyriol’s mages weaving their
protective enchantments over the army with flashing staves and gleaming
wands. There were more of their order amongst the regiments of the
kingdom, wielding swords of flame, shielding the troops with golden arcs
of power.

The centre of the line was held by the Chracians. Flanked by companies
of spear and bow, the White Lions, Caledor’s chosen warriors, waited
with long-hafted axes. To their left stood the silent ranks of the
Phoenix Guard, their cloaks shimmering in the sunlight, halberd heads
gleaming.

To the south, the left end of the line where the ground heaped up over
bush-covered hummocks, the massed reaver knights of Ellyrion waited for
the return of Finudel and Athielle. Their horsehair plumes tossed in the
wind, which carried their laughter and conversation to the rest of the
army.

Last were the dragons. Eight had survived the long war. Surrounded by a
smog of fumes, they rumbled and growled to each other in their own
language, Maedrethnir standing proud at their centre with wings
outstretched.

‘We can win,’ Caledor said again. ‘Be bold and stay strong.’

The battle-plan was agreed and the princes returned to their troops. The
Caledorians mounted their dragons and took to the air while Athielle and
Finudel joined their reavers. Tithrain rode to the head of Cothique’s
small company of knights and Carvalon mounted a griffon that had been
nurtured by the prince since it first hatched. Thyriol’s pegasus climbed
towards the clouds as the mage-prince flew to his acolytes.

Trumpets were raised and their clear notes rang out over the plain. The
shouts of the captains echoed the command and as one the host of Caledor
advanced. To the west, a spreading darkness approached.

As the dragons of Caledor soared into the sky, Sulekh let out a
deafening screech, neck arched. Her three children roared in reply, the
terrifying sound rolling over the advancing army of Nagarythe.

At the forefront of the army were Hellebron and her Khainites, supported
by her father Prince Alandrian with a force of knights from Athel
Toralien. The two were in stark contrast; the near-naked Brides of
Khaine howling and wailing, eyes wide and wild from frenzy-inducing
drugs, hair spiked with the gore of sacrifices, bared flesh pale in the
sunlight beneath an icon of Khaine made from bone and draped with
entrails; the knights armoured from head to toe in plate and mail, their
black steeds protected by heavy caparisons of golden scale, the banner
of Athel Toralien proudly flying above.

To either side stretched the legions of Nagarythe, rank after rank of
spears and repeater crossbows. Standards of red, black and purple
fluttered in the wind, and the sun shone from twenty thousand barbed
spearpoints. Runes of Ereth Khial and Atharti, Khaine and Anath Raema
adorned their shields. Drums of elfskin sounded the beat of the march
and gilded bone horns blared the call to war.

The air above the army writhed with dark energy. Like a black pall,
daemonic forces churned, held in check by the incantations of Morathi’s
acolytes. Malekith could see them more clearly with the aid of his
circlet; horned and fanged monstrosities that bayed and growled as they
clawed at the sky seeking entry into the mortal world.

The beastmasters had brought forth every creature of the mountains:
hydras and manticores, hippogryphs and chimeras. Packs of savage hounds
with spiked collars and iron-tipped fangs and claws howled and strained
at their iron leashes. Whips cracked and goads were thrust into scaled
hides to propel the beasts towards the enemy, flames and smoke wreathing
their advance. The winged monsters took to the air in a mass of feathers
and fur and leathery wings.

Just in front of the Witch King advanced the pride of Malekith, his
knights of Anlec. Across Elthin Arvan they had crushed armies of orcs
and goblins, slaughtered hosts of forest beasts; across Ulthuan their
charges had scattered the elves of the Phoenix King and cut them down as
they fled. Their lances gleamed with magical power, fashioned by Hotek
and his smith-priests. The runes on their shields and armour flared with
power as the winds of magic surged, the mystical energy that swept
across Ulthuan whipped into the storm by the coming battle.

Malekith could feel the magic around him. Fire and blood drew it, gold
and silver harnessed it, fear and hope swelled it, life and death shaped
it. Through the circlet he experienced the constant flow, through the
air and the ground, in every arrowhead and heart.

When the upstarts were crushed, there would be no power in the world
greater than the Witch King. The conquests of the past would pale in
comparison to the empire he would build. He had brought the elven people
to the brink of destruction, but it was from the ashes of that war that
they would arise stronger than ever. When he was Phoenix King, he would
lead his people to even greater heights of glory and power.

From his throne on Sulekh’s back, Malekith turned to his mother, who was
sat to his right astride a newly tamed raven-hued pegasus.

‘At last I shall have my battle,’ the Witch King said. ‘Imrik has
misjudged a step and it is time to end this interminable war.’

‘You shall see him humbled,’ replied Morathi. ‘The usurper will bend his
knee as you were forced to bow before Bel Shanaar. He will weep at your
hands, begging forgiveness for taking your throne. The blades and acids
of the Khainites will eke out every drop of agony from his wretched
body. My sorcery will visit upon him every nightmare ever conceived.’

Malekith regarded his mother with burning eyes, bemused by her vehemence
and melodrama. He no longer dreamed of a broken Imrik pleading for his
life; his visions were filled with the pure joy of standing over the
usurper’s corpse. For twelve years it had been only a dream. For twelve
years he had suffered humiliation and torment, the thought of which hurt
as much as the pain of his still-burning flesh.

‘I would rather he just died,’ said the Witch King. He let out a moan of
pleasure at the thought. ‘The sooner, the better.’

He wrenched on Sulekh’s chains with unnatural strength, signalling her
to launch into the air. The other black dragons followed as Malekith
steered his mount over his army. Holding Sulekh’s reins in his shield
hand, the Witch King drew Avanuir. The magical blade burst into blue
flame and Malekith’s voice roared out his simple command.

‘Attack! Kill Imrik!’

Gripping shield and spear tightly, Carathril advanced at the head of a
company of spearmen from Eataine. His skin felt oily and slick from dark
magic and he nervously eyed the convulsing cloud of darkness gathering
over the moor. There were whispers on the edge of hearing, cruel and
seductive, beguiling and threatening. He drove them from his thoughts,
focussing on the enemy ahead.

Arrows and bolts flew in clouds from both armies. The cries of the dying
and the wounded were already loud. A hail of spear-like shafts slammed
into the company of elves to Carathril’s right, ripping a hole through
their ranks. Bolts clattered from shield and scale coats as the missiles
of the druchii fell into the advancing elves of the Phoenix King.

There was little Carathril could do but trust in fate and believe that
Morai Heg was not so cruel of humour that she had carried him through
this war so far only to have him spitted on a bolt or punctured by
quarrels.

A hideous beast, an unholy hybrid of lizard and dog and lion, the size
of a horse, padded across the spongy ground towards the Eataine company.
A thick miasma surrounded the creature, pale yellow in colour, its
sulphurous stench carrying to Carathril. Behind, beastmasters goaded it
forwards with long-tined tridents and lashes barbed with cruel hooks,
the faces of the druchii swathed with scarves.

‘Basilisk!’ Carathril shouted in warning.

As the beast approached, Carathril hoped that one of the bolt thrower
crews would sight the beast and slay it, but as the basilisk broke into
a run, baring fangs like black knives, he knew the hope was empty.

The company halted to receive the monster’s charge, shields raised and
spears lowered. Carathril swallowed down his fear, his mouth dry.

The basilisk barrelled full-pelt into the spear company, roaring and
slashing. Shields were rent by its claws and scales of armour shredded
by its teeth. Spears snapped upon its thick hide as the elves struck
back, though not all were turned aside and bloody wounds were opened in
the basilisk’s scaled flanks.

Where its blood spilled forth, the filthy fog spilled also. Its touch
was corrosive, flaking metal and melting skin. The elves that were
unfortunate enough to breathe in the toxic mist fell back with hoarse
screams, dropping their spears to claw at burning throats. The merest
touch of the deadly fume petrified flesh, turning eyes and hands into a
rough, grey, stone-like substance.

Recovering from the initial shock of the basilisk’s attack, the spearmen
closed ranks, using their shields to waft away the poisonous fog. Eyes
closed, they thrust blindly at the monster, trusting to instinct and
elven senses to guide their blows.

More fell to its teeth and claws, but eventually the holes and cuts upon
the basilisk’s hide were too much. Ichor and blood oozed from dozens of
wounds as it collapsed, sending up more of the foul vapour. The
creature’s handlers fled as the spearmen parted around the rapidly
rotting body of the basilisk.

Carathril gasped, drawing in a ragged breath. Through stinging eyes he
saw the druchii spearmen advancing to meet the line. The bitter tang of
the basilisk clung to Carathril’s robes and his face itched from the
passing of its fume.

These distractions fell away as he looked upon the sneering, shouting
faces of the enemy. He thought of Prince Aeltherin burning himself
alive. He remembered the hard days of riding back and forth for Bel
Shanaar. He recalled the bloody mess of Ealith and the seductive wiles
of Drutheira. The carnage of the Shrine of Asuryan haunted him still.
Twenty-six years of war crowded into his mind; the siege of Lothern and
Aerenis’s death by his hand foremost amongst the many dreadful things he
had witnessed and done.

It was not in his nature to hate, but for that moment he was filled with
loathing for the elves that came towards him. It did not matter if they
were as scared as he was. It was of no consequence that many would have
families. Some he might even have fought alongside before Malekith’s
treachery. All such considerations were irrelevant. They were the
druchii, the dark elves, and they would kill or enslave all of elfkind
if they were victorious.

‘For Caledor!’ Carathril shouted, raising his spear, the call echoed by
those around him. Though no command was given, the company broke into a
run, heading straight for the oncoming druchii. Carathril relaxed,
knowing that if he died he would know peace. The enemy surged forwards
in response and Carathril shouted again.

‘For Ulthuan!’

The first clash of the armies crashed across the moor. Flying high above
the battle, Thyriol watched the lines of black and white undulating as
first one side and then the other pressed forwards and fell back. The
Witch King’s attack was focussed on destroying Caledor, his army driving
forwards on a narrow front. The Phoenix King had predicted this and laid
his plans accordingly. Using himself as bait, Caledor had placed himself
in the centre of the army, a lodestone for the fury of the druchii.

The White Lions and Phoenix Guard bore the brunt of the first assault,
while archers poured arrows into the advancing druchii knights. The
phalanx of Caledor’s spears pushed forwards as far as possible, creating
a funnel effect that further encouraged the enemy to attack towards the
Phoenix King’s best warriors. Dragons and griffons and manticores
whirled about the skies, forced high by the massed bolt throwers on both
sides, the riders of each army duelling for dominion of the air.

While spear and sword, axe and lance contested the battle on the ground,
a far more esoteric but no less deadly fight was being waged in the air.
The winds of magic churned, ripped this way and that as Morathi’s
sorcerers and Thyriol’s mages struggled with each other. The daemonic
cloud that roiled over the battlefield filled the Sapherian prince’s
mind, sitting heavy in his thoughts like a coagulated mass of darkness.

Lightning split the air from staff tips and balls of fire screamed
across the clouds. Hails of glittering crystal spears sliced through the
druchii while whole companies of Caledor’s soldiers were swallowed by
great maws that opened in the ground beneath them.

The air was thick with spell and counterspell, forming a glittering
landscape no less real than the moorland below. Inhuman things screeched
as they erupted from the Realm of Chaos, plucking knights from their
saddles and devouring horses. Fire-bodied eagles soared over the heads
of the Phoenix King’s soldiers, their flaming wings incinerating the
clouds of bolts and arrows launched at them by the enemy. Cascades of
white energy fell from Thyriol’s sword as his pegasus swept low, the
magical sparks setting fire to a battery of bolt throwers as the
mage-prince passed over them.

A sudden pressure, a build-up of dark magic, drew his attention to the
north. He felt a wave of daemonic energy tearing at the fabric of
reality. The ground erupted and an immense serpent with a fanged maw and
dozens of writhing tongues burst up beneath a regiment of archers.
Lashing tentacles ensnared the helpless warriors, tossing their bodies
into the air and dragging them into the creature’s slavering mouth.

With a word to his mount, Thyriol turned towards the daemonic
apparition, words of banishment in his mind. As the creature devoured
more elves, the mage dived down towards it, chanting the incantation of
unbinding. A golden glow enveloped the summoned monster, turning
pustule-pocked flesh to shimmering dust. The daemon thrashed, letting
out an unearthly wail, appendages rippling, its clustered black eyes
glaring at Thyriol. Channelling the winds of magic through his staff,
the mage hurled a bolt of white into the creature’s maw, setting a white
flame burning within it. Its scream still lingering on the wind, the
daemon was consumed, burning away to nothing.

Occupied by his banishment of the daemon, Thyriol had not noticed a
black-winged shape approaching closer, a trail of black flames left in
its wake. Too late he felt the sorceress’s presence and looked up. He
saw a hate-filled face wreathed with a halo of black hair, and felt the
rush of dark magic from the skull-tipped staff in her hands.

He threw up a silver shield to counter the spell, but the wave of dark
magic blasted it aside, turning it to falling magical splinters. Thyriol
braced himself, his amulets glowing protectively, but the next spell was
not directed at him.

His pegasus gave a choked cough and spasmed, blood pouring from
thousands of small cuts that appeared in its flesh. Feathers fluttered
from its wings as it fell. The mage could feel bones breaking in the
body of the pegasus, as if a giant hand was crushing it. With a last
whinny of terror, the pegasus died and Thyriol plummeted towards the
ground.

Morathi laughed at the spectacle of the falling mage. His robe fluttered
and his staff fell from his grasp as he frantically waved his arms,
perhaps trying to imitate a bird. Her laughter died away as a pair of
insubstantial silver wings shimmered from the mage’s shoulders, bearing
him lightly to the ground. As the sorceress circled around for another
attack, the mage brushed down his robes and held out a hand, his staff
flying into his grasp from where it had fallen.

Sword in one hand, skull-headed staff in the other, Morathi plunged
towards the impudent mage. As she came closer she recognised Saphery’s
ruler and she remembered bitterly the mage’s role in the insults and
woes that had been heaped upon her. He had spoken at the First Council,
and it had been his wards that had imprisoned her within Bel Shanaar’s
palace.

Thyriol turned, sensing her approach. A shaft of blue energy sprang from
his eyes. Morathi countered the spell with a snarled incantation, a
shadow uncoiling from the tip of her staff to meet the column of light.
The two spells clashed with an explosion of energy that sent Morathi
reeling against her mount and hurled the mage to his back.

Pulling herself upright as her pegasus landed, Morathi pointed her sword
at the supine spellcaster. Energy flickered around her blade, coalescing
into an icy spike that flew towards the mage’s chest, splitting into
thousands of shards. The mage lifted his staff at the last moment, a
disc of gold appearing in front of him. The ice storm deflected from the
magical barrier, turning to a cloud of mist.

Pushing himself to his feet, the Sapherian lifted an open hand towards
Morathi. Whispering a dispel, she watched as a dove appeared in the
mage’s palm. It took off and circled around the mage’s head, cooing
gently. Morathi laughed again. It was a cheap cantrip used for the
entertainment of children, nothing more. She summoned more dark magic,
her mind reaching up to the daemonic cloud to tap into the raw power of
Chaos.

As she prepared to unleash her next assault, the dove began to circle
faster, the arc of its flight growing wider and wider. Its eyes
glittered like crystal, mesmerising as it dipped and rose, weaving a
complex series of curves and angles around the mage.

Morathi snapped away her gaze, just in time to rein in the dark power
that was building inside her. Her skin crawled for a moment with excess
magic, her teeth buzzing and her nerves dancing. The dove grew in size,
its feathers changing to every colour of the rainbow, wings becoming
iridescent trails of flame.

The phoenix hurtled towards Morathi, its keening cry ringing in her
ears, driving into the core of her mind. She clenched her jaw and
tightened the grip on her staff as the dark magic thrashed inside her,
trying to escape. The phoenix-spell struck her full force, setting fire
to her hair and throwing her from the back of her mount.

Crashing to the ground, Morathi gasped for air, tendrils of black energy
escaping her throat. She gritted her teeth and surged to her feet, sword
thrusting towards the mage. Crescent blades of black iron appeared in
the air, spinning towards the Sapherian. The mage again summoned his
golden shield, but Morathi had expected as much. The scything blades
became needle-fine darts, each a tiny sliver of pure magic. They punched
into the mage’s shield. Most were stopped, but some smashed through,
reducing the shield to golden shards before engulfing the mage. The
Sapherian’s robes were reduced to tatters in a moment and his flesh was
a mass of grazes and scratches.

Extending more power, Morathi followed the path of the spell with a spat
curse, the dark magic winding along the course followed by the bolt,
seeping into the open wounds in the mage’s flesh. Every tiny cut began
to suppurate, blistering outwards with small explosions of pus and
blood. The mage cried out in pain, falling to his knees. Morathi stalked
closer, pouring more and more magic into the hex, driving the infection
deeper and deeper into the Sapherian.

With a defiant shout, the mage flung out his arms. White fire erupted
from within his skin, burning away the magical plague. He staggered to
his feet as the flames continued to rage, his eyes blinding orbs, hair
dancing wildly in the mystical fire. With visible effort, the Sapherian
brought his hands together, still clutching his staff. The flames burst
along his arms and out of the staff, engulfing Morathi.

Out of desperation, the sorceress hurled herself to the ground,
clutching her arms to her chest, turning her skin to stone. The flames
washed over her, touching but not burning. They raged for a long time,
while she was cocooned within her own flesh. Morathi fought back the
dark magic that flowed through her blood vessels and caused her heart to
pound.

Eventually the fires dissipated. Morathi reversed her spell, but the
transformation was slow. Like a waking statue, her limbs turned back to
flesh and she straightened. Dust flaked away from her face as she opened
her eyes.

The mage had fled, borne aloft on the magical wings that had saved him
from his fall. For a moment she considered chasing after him, but a
screeching cry from above drew her eye.

Out of the clouds dropped a griffon, claws extended, red and black wings
held back as it stooped. On its back rode a prince clad in golden mail
and blue robes, a sword of sapphire in his fist. His long shield bore
the symbol of Yvresse, against a background of midnight stars.

Malekith too noticed Carvalon’s attack. He had been watching the
progress of the battle with some satisfaction. His knights had broken
through to Caledor’s war engines and were wreaking havoc amongst the
bolt thrower crews. The line of the Phoenix King’s spears had been
halted and was slowly being pushed back. Everywhere he looked, Malekith
saw a constricting ring of black and silver closing in on Caledor.

Sulekh launched towards the prince of Yvresse as Carvalon dived towards
Morathi. The sorceress flung an arm towards the griffon, black lightning
springing from her fingertips. Fur and feathers burned and the monster
pulled out of its dive, swerving to avoid the crackling energy.

The black dragon struck like a thunderbolt, claws ripping through the
griffon’s smouldering wings. Malekith saw the prince’s eyes widen with
shock within his visor as the Witch King crashed Avanuir down on
Carvalon’s shield, splitting it in two.

The griffon was cawing and screeching in agony as Sulekh tore bloody
chunks of flesh free with her massive jaws, parting muscle and sinew,
snapping bone. Carvalon leapt from the dying beast’s back, landing on
Sulekh’s shoulder. Surprised, Malekith reacted slowly as the Yvressian
prince slashed his sapphire-bladed sword across the Witch King’s chest.

Sparks flew from the wound and molten metal trickled like blood from the
gash in Malekith’s breastplate. He looked down, astounded, and then felt
the pain.

Snatching hold of one of Sulekh’s spines, Carvalon raised his sword for
another blow.

Enraged, the Witch King struck, thrusting Avanuir into the prince’s
chest. Enchanted armour buckled and then split as the blade erupted from
the prince’s back, flickering blue flame igniting Carvalon’s robes and
hair. Malekith reached out and grabbed hold of the prince as he was
about to topple. Burning fingers seared through gilded pauldrons and
sank into flesh.

With a snarl, Malekith brought up Avanuir, shearing through spine and
ribs, parting Carvalon like a roast hog. Blood splashed onto the Witch
King and hissed into nothingness on his hot armour. Feeling nothing but
contempt, Malekith let go of the prince’s split body and brought down
Avanuir, striking off the head as the corpse fell from Sulekh.

Sheathing his sword, Malekith dabbed a hand to the wound in his chest.
The metal that had bubbled free was already cooling, forming a weld
across the breach in his armour. The pain subsided, but it was a
salutary lesson: he was not immortal.

Looking down at the unfolding battle, the Witch King saw a swathe of
pale skin and red driving through the line of Imrik’s army, like a spear
aimed directly for the usurper.

Malekith smiled. Perhaps the Khainites would slay Imrik for him.

Ducking beneath an axe blade, Hellebron slashed the sword in her right
hand through the white pelt cloak of the Chracian in front of her,
slicing off his arm, while plunging the blade in her left into his eye.
Kicking aside the falling body, she leapt over a swinging axe, burying
both blades through the helmet of the elf wielding it.

Around her, the Brides of Khaine shrieked praises to the Bloody-Handed
God as they battled the Chracian bodyguards. They ducked and dodged the
slashing axe heads of their foes, poisoned blades licking out like
serpent’s tongues, finding exposed flesh. To Hellebron’s right, a Bride
was cleaved from shoulder to gut, spattering the Khainite priestess with
blood. Hellebron licked her lips, savouring the taste.

The Chracian stepped over the mangled corpse and swung his axe at
Hellebron’s neck. She dropped to all fours, legs split, the blade
whistling over her head. In an instant she sprang up again, slashing
both blades across the Chracian’s throat. He fell back, arterial blood
coating Hellebron like the blessing of Khaine Himself. Heart pumping,
she vaulted over the crumpling corpse, plunging a sword into the back of
another warrior.

Over the melee, Hellebron could see the towering form of the usurper
king’s dragon, the accursed Caledorian on its back. She swayed aside
from another axe, eyes fixed on Imrik, and cut off the hands that
wielded it. Without a pause, she swept a blade across the warrior’s
face. The carnage thrilled her, fuelling her body, sharpening her mind.
Blood racing, the sacred brew of Khaine flowing through her, Hellebron
stalked on. Through the rushing of blood and the pounding of her heart,
the ring of metal engulfed Hellebron, a symphony of destruction that
gave voice to Khaine’s gift.

Senses heightened to a preternatural degree by the narcotic leaves she
had ingested, Khaine’s Chosen One eluded every blow aimed towards her
while her blades were a constant flicker of silver leaving dead and
dismembered foes. She fought without thought, reacting to the slightest
movement, her swords moving as if they had a life of their own.

A new sound pierced the haze of death: the clear note of a trumpet. The
ground was trembling underfoot. Despatching another Chracian with a
back-handed slash, Hellebron turned towards the sound. Over the heads of
her Brides, she saw a wall of white horses and silver-clad riders
bearing down.

In a wave of streaming horsehair plumes and green pennants, the
Ellyrians crashed into the Khainites with lowered spears. In Finudel’s
hand blazed the ancient spear Mirialith. Dozens fell to the charge,
caught on spearpoints and crushed beneath galloping hooves. Finudel
struck left and right as his horse surged through the press of foes,
every thrust slaying a Khainite.

Burning with anger at memories of the atrocities he had seen in
Cothique, the Ellyrian prince fell upon the Khainites with merciless
ferocity. Beside him, Athielle carved a path through the enemy with her
silver sword, her long hair flowing like a cloak behind her.

The prince and princess drove into the heart of the Khainites, pushing
towards the grisly standard, their reavers following behind. Finudel’s
eyes met those of a feral witch, her face caked in blood, hair
outlandishly spiked and braided. The prince lowered Mirialith towards
her in challenge and urged his horse on.

As the impetus of the Ellyrians’ charge diminished, the Khainites
swarmed around them. Finudel lost sight of the Khainite leader for a
moment as he was surrounded by a press of shrieking faces and poisoned
blades. He slashed with his magical spear, hurling back the wild
attackers.

The Khainite witch reappeared to his left, somersaulting onto the back
of a horse, her blades leaving a red gash across the rider’s chest. With
unbelievable dexterity and balance she sprang from the horse to another,
slashing the head from another knight before jumping again, leaping from
one steed to the next, leaving a trail of falling bodies behind.

In the melee, Finudel and Athielle became separated. He glanced over his
shoulder, relieved to see his sister still fighting, her sword rising
and falling in shining crescents as she cut her way through the
Khainites. Kicking a booted foot into the face of a Khainite that leapt
towards him, he directed his steed at the priestess who was slaying so
many of his warriors.

She seemed possessed, paying no heed to the many marks and cuts upon her
body. Standing in a circle of bodies, the Khainite leader twirled and
leapt, slashing the legs from horses and cutting down their riders. She
fought with a strangely wild grace, ever moving, each motion bringing a
perfect moment of death.

The Khainite was oblivious to Finudel as he broke free from the press
and lowered his spear. He whispered a command to his horse, which broke
into a gallop, and aimed the point of Mirialith at her naked back.

A sudden chill struck the prince as a shadow swallowed him. He smelt a
dreadful stench and his horse baulked, rearing up in terror. He turned
just as a monstrous black claw closed around his body.

The sounds of shrieking metal and the screams of the dying Ellyrian
prince were drowned out by Sulekh’s roar. Malekith swept down his sword,
a blaze of fire disgorged from the blade to engulf the reaver knights.
Sulekh’s tail toppled a score of riders, crushing bodies, spearing them
on its bony spines. A cloud of noxious gas bubbled from her mouth,
choking and corroding, blinding and suffocating.

The knights around the Witch King fled in terror, their panicked shouts
sounding muffled to his ravaged ears. He threw more magical fire after
them, incinerating steeds and boiling the riders in their armour.

As Sulekh lunged after the fleeing Ellyrians, Malekith noticed a group
of riders several hundred strong had not turned to run. At their head
was a golden-haired princess, her face a mask of hatred. She lifted her
sword and signalled the charge.

Yanking on the reins, the Witch King guided Sulekh towards the
approaching reavers. Spears shattered on scale as the knights charged
home. Sulekh swiped with her front claws, beheading and disembowelling
dozens of Ellyrians. Their princess avoided a slashing claw, her blade
carving a bloody furrow along Sulekh’s foreleg as she rode under the
dragon’s body.

Malekith twisted, looking for Athielle to emerge from beneath the
dragon’s bulk. Sulekh hissed with pain and staggered to the right,
revealing the princess with bloodied sword, gore spilling from a wound
in the black dragon’s underside.

Sulekh’s tail lashed, smashing into Athielle’s horse, turning it to a
pulp of blood and broken bones. The princess was flung through the air
and landed heavily, left leg twisting beneath her. Malekith channelled
dark magic, ready to unleash another blaze of fire to finish off the
Ellyrian. A movement caught his attention, a swiftly approaching blot
against the clouds. He looked up to see a massive red dragon plunging
towards him, a golden-armoured figure on its back.

‘Finally,’ the Witch King said, all thoughts of Athielle forgotten. He
raised his voice in challenge, his words a metallic roar that carried
over the din of battle. ‘Come to me, Imrik! Come to me!’

The companies of the White Lions and Phoenix Guard surged forwards into
the Naggarothi below while Malekith’s black dragon leapt up to meet the
Phoenix King head-on. Maedrethnir plunged down from the clouds uttering
a roaring challenge. The shock of the dragons’ impact almost threw
Caledor from the saddle-throne, the two titanic beasts slamming into
each other in a ferocious welter of claws and fangs. The Phoenix King
thought he heard mocking laughter from the Witch King as Maedrethnir
bathed the other dragon with fire.

The two beasts parted and circled, gashes pouring blood from both
dragons. Caledor levelled his lance for the next pass, aiming for
Malekith’s chest. The rune upon the Witch King’s shield burned into his
mind, writhing and shifting. The blood-red symbol, the True Name of
Khaine, bombarded Caledor with the cacophony of war and the taste of
blood filled his mouth.

Shaking his head to clear away the effects of the dread rune, Caledor
saw that Malekith was almost upon him. He swung his lance as Maedrethnir
rolled to the right, the weapon’s shining tip scoring a wound across the
flank of the black dragon as she passed by overhead.

The black dragon turned swiftly, almost catching Maedrethnir’s tail in
her jaw. The dragon dipped in the air to avoid the attack, exposing
Caledor to the beast’s raking claws. He turned and brought up his shield
just in time, claws as hard as diamond ripping across its surface as
protective energies blazed.

Gliding towards the ground, the two dragons closed again, snarling and
roaring. Fire sprang from Malekith’s sword, surrounding Caledor with
crackling intensity. The enchantments of his armour protected the
Phoenix King from harm, the blue flames passing around him harmlessly.
Maedrethnir grappled with the black dragon, their longs necks swaying as
each sought to sink fangs into the other. Claws raked back and forth,
sending scales and blood spilling to the ground.

Bucking and twisting, the dragons descended, locked together by jaw and
claw. Caledor let his lance fall from his grasp and pulled free
Lathrain, just as the Witch King lashed out with Avanuir. The two swords
met with an explosion of lightning and blue fire. The shock numbed
Caledor’s arm and it was with a surge of will that he parried the next
attack, turning aside Malekith’s blade as it screamed towards the
Phoenix King’s head.

The dragons gave no thought to their riders as they savaged each other.
Caledor was tossed left and right as Maedrethnir struggled with his foe,
wings flapping and tail whipping. Malekith clung to his iron reins with
his shield hand, steam and smoke rising from his armour.

The gaze of the Phoenix King met the eyes of the Witch King. They were
like bottomless pits filled with black fire, dragging his life from him.
The Sapherian charms hanging on Caledor’s armour glowed as they warded
away the Witch King’s sorcery. Again he turned aside a stroke from
Avanuir as the two dragons came close enough for Malekith to strike.

The battle continued to rage around them. In their frenzy, the dragons
trampled over friend and foe without distinction, Khainites and
Ellyrians, White Lions and Naggarothi clawed and trampled by the two
behemoths.

Caledor kept his focus on the Witch King, seeking an opening to strike.
When the black dragon reeled back from an attack from Maedrethnir, the
Phoenix King saw his opportunity. His sword cut down into the Witch
King’s shoulder, biting deep with a scream of tearing metal. A wave of
energy pulsed up Caledor’s arm, sending agony shooting through every
part of his body.

Maedrethnir gave a pained howl as the black dragon’s claws found
purchase around his neck. Jaw snapping, Caledor’s mount seized hold of
his enemy’s wing, biting through bone and sinew until the black dragon
released its grip in a spasm of pain. Blood was gushing from
Maedrethnir’s neck. The red dragon stumbled back leaving a stream of
crimson on the rucked earth.

As the Witch King wrenched on the chain of the black dragon’s reins, the
beast lunged at Caledor. Her jaws closed around his arm, teeth cracking
against the ensorcelled ithilmar. The Phoenix King’s arm was already
numb with pain and Lathrain tumbled from his grasp. The straps of the
Phoenix King’s harness parted as the black dragon shook her head,
dragging Caledor from the saddle-throne, casting him to the ground.

Heaving in a gasping breath, Caledor pushed to his feet, seeking
Lathrain. He saw the glitter of metal in a tussock not far away and set
out towards it, hand outstretched.

A massive blow caught him in the back, lifting him through the air. The
Phoenix King crashed down amid the bodies of the slain Ellyrians, coming
face-to-face with Finudel’s dead visage.

Lying on his chest, Caledor felt the ground trembling. He rolled to his
back, expecting to see the black dragon looming over him. It was not.
Malekith wrestled with the beast’s reins, trying to direct her towards
Caledor. The black dragon struggled, eager to pursue Maedrethnir, who
had withdrawn, limping heavily, flanks scored with dozens of ragged
gashes. The black dragon had fared little better, her wings tattered,
face and neck marked by claws and fangs.

The will of the Witch King prevailed and the dragon’s head was steered
towards the fallen Phoenix King. Flapping ragged wings, the black dragon
pounded forwards, jaws wide, dripping bloodied saliva.

Caledor looked up into the dragon’s glassy eyes, seeing himself
reflected in the black orbs. There was nothing to read there, just
reptilian coldness. He heard Malekith’s triumphant laughter.

A rush of hooves engulfed Caledor. A squadron of knights galloped past,
some of the steeds leaping over the prone Phoenix King as they charged.
Lances crashed against the scales of the dragon, while fire roared from
Malekith’s sword.

When the last of the knights had passed, Caledor saw that they flew the
colours of Tithrain. Discarding their broken lances, they drew gleaming
swords and rode around the black dragon, hacking at its flesh. The
dragon struck back, stomping a clawed foot onto one of the knights,
crushing rider and horse, while its jaws engulfed another.

Caledor tried to stand but pain shot up his back from his right leg. He
fell to the side, hands sinking into the blood-slicked mud. Looking
down, his saw his leg was twisted, the armour buckled and ruptured.
Pushing back the pain, he sat up again in an attempt to see what else
was happening.

The battle was still in full flow. Dragons and manticores ripped at each
other above. Spells of destruction and protection flared and the whine
of bolts and arrows tore the air. Still the dark roiling cloud of the
daemons stretched across the sky, bubbling and burning with infernal
energies. The spear companies clashed, the roars of their battle cries
joining with the ring of metal, the ground trembling beneath the hooves
of charging horses and the booted feet of thousands of warriors.

Caledor dragged himself across the bloody grass and propped himself up
against the body of Finudel’s horse. He looked at Malekith and the black
dragon and saw that more than half of Tithrain’s knights had been slain
and still the beast and its master lived.

As he watched, Tithrain was lifted from his saddle in the dragon’s jaws.
The prince rained blows upon her face with his sword, opening up welts
in the scales. Then the jaws closed fully and Tithrain was slain, his
limp body hanging from the black dragon’s fangs as it opened its mouth
to let out another cloud of noxious vapour.

With the death of their prince, the nerve of the knights broke. As they
fled, Malekith again struggled to direct his mount towards Caledor while
it wanted to pursue the retreating riders. Under the Witch King’s
urging, the dragon took three steps closer to Caledor, blood streaming
from dozens of wounds. This time Caledor looked up at the Witch King,
whose flaming eyes blazed red. The Witch King had his arm upraised,
Avanuir pointed to the sky.

The Phoenix King felt strange warmth fill him. His vision danced,
half-blinded by the sun setting behind Malekith. He thought he saw a
figure in the rays of the sun, a lithe elf with hair of ivy and eyes of
blossoms. The figure drifted towards him surrounded by an aura of gold
and green, and the smell of grass and trees came to his nostrils.

‘Victory will be yours, Caledor,’ said the apparition. ‘You just have to
reach out and take it.’

The Phoenix King glanced at Malekith, expecting the mortal blow any
moment. The Witch King seemed frozen, as was the rest of the battle.
There was no sound save for the sighing of wind through leaves and the
creak of swaying branches.

The maiden looked down to Caledor’s right and smiled, the expression
sending a wave of strength through the Phoenix King’s body, driving away
the exhaustion and pain.

With a thunderous crash of returning noise, the vision passed. The
foetid breath of the dragon passed over Caledor, making his skin
prickle. Not knowing what he did, he reached out his right hand to where
the apparition had looked, eyes still set on the Witch King.

His gauntleted fingers closed around the haft of a spear, its touch warm
with magic in his grasp.

The black dragon pulled back its head, ready to lunge, drawing in a
massive breath. Caledor looked at the cracked and bloodied fangs, and
saw the monstrous forked tongue tasting the air.

He brought his arm forwards with all his strength, hurling Finudel’s
spear.

Mirialith gleamed as it flashed towards the open maw of the dragon. The
spear punched through the roof of the dragon’s mouth and into the
creature’s skull.

Sulekh roared and reared, her whole body thrashing in her death throes.
Iron links parted and the chains of her harness snapped. Malekith was
cast backwards and to the left, falling from the black dragon’s back. He
slammed into the ground with a crash of metal, flames and steam
billowing from his armour.

Still jarred from the impact, Malekith raised himself to one knee,
throwing aside his shield to free his hand. Beside him Sulekh continued
to writhe and thrash, keening loudly. The Witch King fixed his baleful
stare on Imrik, who lay slumped over the body of a horse. The usurper
met his glare with a defiant stare.

A moment later, Sulekh’s body slammed into Malekith, crushing him into
the ground. Pinned by her massive weight, he heaved at her mass, trying
to free himself, letting out a bellow of frustration. He dropped Avanuir
to the ground so that he could use both hands to push at the massive
corpse that lay on top of his legs and waist.

A prickle of sensation shuddered through Malekith; the touch of magic.
He turned his head to the left seeking the source.

A wave of white fire poured towards him. It was beautiful, glittering
like moonlight on the sea, flecked with gold and silver. He recognised
the flames. He had stood within them to receive Asuryan’s blessing. Now
the lord of gods had come again to aid Malekith, as he had Aenarion.

With a surge of power, Malekith heaved free the body of Sulekh. He stood
up and faced the oncoming fire, arms spread wide to receive Asuryan’s
blessing. The white flames crackled closer and closer, a chill wind
against his red-hot armour. He closed his eyes as the fire engulfed him,
waiting for the release from the agony that had been his companion for
more than two decades.

Fresh pain seared through his chest and arms. Malekith gave a cry and
opened his eyes.

It was not the flame of Asuryan that surrounded him, but the halberds of
the Phoenix Guard. Each blade burned with the white fires of Asuryan,
every blow they landed upon the Witch King igniting the flame that had
been set within his flesh by the lord of gods.

The physical pain was as nothing compared to the pain of betrayal. As
his iron flesh was rent and ripped by the swinging halberds of the
Phoenix Guard Malekith realised he had not received Asuryan’s blessing.
His father had not endured the agony he had endured.

The Witch King’s delusion fell away and he saw his punishment for what
it was. Asuryan had shunned him, cursed him with everlasting torment.
The shock of it brought Malekith to his knees as more blows rained down
upon him, carving furrows in his black armour.

The moment of woe passed, quickly replaced by anger; a deep-rooted rage
fed by the burning that seethed inside the Witch King. His armour
exploded with fire, hurling back the Phoenix Guard, their flesh
withered, armour melting, hair and cloaks in flames.

Lacking any weapon, Malekith set about the servants of his tormentor
with flaming fists, his iron hands punching through breastplates and
ripping off limbs. Towering above the Phoenix Guard, he summoned dark
magic, feeding off the escaping life force of his foes, twisting it to
his own ends.

He tried to draw the magic into himself, to heal the rents in his
armour. The dark magic swerved and writhed, failing to take purchase in
his body. Where the blades of the Phoenix Guard had marked him, tiny
golden flames burned, keeping the dark magic at bay.

Dread filled Malekith’s heart. Unable to heal his wounds, which streamed
with rivulets of molten metal like blood, he realised he was about to
die.

‘Never!’ he roared.

He drew himself up to his full height. The dark magic he had summoned to
cure his wounds swirled around him, forming blades of blackened iron
that slashed through the Phoenix Guard. With a final pulse of dark
magic, he blasted the forest of magical swords into his foes, driving
them back.

Leaking metal and fire and blood, Malekith turned and ran, leaving burnt
prints in the bloodied grass. He would not die yet; not here on this
dismal moor, with the usurper looking on, laughing. The Witch King drew
on the power of his circlet, reaching out into the winds of magic,
grabbing all of the power he could. An oily black cloud formed around
him, flickering with lightning, obscuring him from his pursuers. It
spread further and further, a churning, living mass that snatched up the
Phoenix Guard who came after him, twisting their bodies and snapping
their bones.

So it was that Malekith the Witch King fled the field of Maledor and
returned to Anlec, broken and bitter-hearted, his ambition destroyed
upon that bloodied heath.

Morathi saw the flight of her son and knew that the battle had been
lost. Yet she was not yet convinced that the war could not be won. Long
she and her son had spoken of their most ingenious plan, that would
guarantee victory. Leaving the army to fend for itself, she sent the
command to her sorceresses to withdraw and turned her pegasus westwards.

The loss of the Witch King was a blow from which the druchii army could
not recover. Seeing their lord and general flee broke the spirit of his
followers. Such princes and knights as could escape followed their
master, fleeing westwards to Anlec. Here and there Naggarothi companies
managed to break loose and retreat to the south towards the keeps
guarding the Naganar, Hellebron and the remaining Khainites amongst
them.

Caledor was in no state to command the army and it fell to Dorien to
lead the pursuit. The army of the Phoenix King swept to the west,
driving the remaining druchii into the marshes north of the battlefield.
Many druchii drowned in that mire, dragged down by their armour, but the
treacherous ground halted all pursuit save for the three dragons that
had survived and a lone Sapherian on his pegasus.

As night fell, Dorien was forced to return to the army, his remaining
foes disappearing into the darkness, fearful for the welfare of his
brother. He flew back to the Phoenix King and found him being tended by
the healers. The White Lions stood protectively around Caledor, the
silent ranks of the Phoenix Guard close by.

There was no sense of victory, no jubilation amongst the warriors of the
army. The princes of three kingdoms had fallen to the Witch King and
their armies were wracked with grief. The elves wept at their losses;
many thousands would never return to their homes. The strength of
Nagarythe had been broken, but at tremendous cost.

As the night deepened, Caledor was numb in body and mind. He refused to
leave the battlefield until all of the other wounded had been attended,
sitting against Finudel’s steed where he had slain the black dragon of
Malekith.

Campfires were lit, far from where the fighting had taken place for none
wished to look upon the heaps of the dead; a grisly task that would wait
until the next day. Finally Caledor allowed himself to be lifted onto a
bier. He was about to be taken back to his pavilion when a shout of
challenge cut the darkness.

By the flickering glow of the fires, indistinct figures could be seen.
Hooded and cloaked, they hovered on the edge of vision. Caledor heard a
whisper from one of the elves carrying him.

‘The spirits of the druchii!’ the captain hissed. ‘Even in death they
hate us.’

‘Not so,’ said a voice from the darkness.

The White Lions brought up their axes as a black-clad figure emerged
from the shadows. He pulled back his hood, revealing himself to be Alith
Anar.

‘There are still some Naggarothi alive on Maledor this night,’ said the
Shadow King.

‘You are late,’ said Caledor.

‘For your battle?’ said Alith, his voice tinged with scorn. ‘I told you
that I do not fight for the Phoenix King.’

‘What do you want?’ said Caledor, too tired and sore for an argument.

‘I want you to leave Nagarythe,’ said Alith. ‘You are not welcome in my
lands.’

‘Your lands?’ barked Dorien, his hand moving to the hilt of his sword.

Alith moved quickly, so fast it appeared that one moment he was standing
with arms crossed, the next he had his silver bow in his hand, an arrow
pointed at Dorien’s throat.

‘My lands,’ said the Shadow King. He spoke to Caledor, but his eyes did
not move from Dorien. ‘Three thousand of my warriors surround your camp.
If any of your soldiers raise a weapon against me, they will cut you
down.’

Caledor looked into Alith’s eyes and judged that this was no empty
threat. He waved Dorien to stand down.

‘Malekith has survived, so too Morathi,’ said the Phoenix King. ‘I must
go to Anlec to finish this.’

‘You have done your part,’ said Alith. ‘What remains is the business of
Nagarythe and no other kingdom.’

‘You need my help,’ said Caledor.

‘I have never needed your help,’ replied Alith. ‘I wish you no harm, but
if you try to march on Anlec I will be forced to stop you. Do not
interfere any more in the affairs of the Naggarothi. When Malekith and
Morathi have been dealt with, you will hear from me.’

Looking at the young Shadow King, Caledor saw nothing but determination
and sincerity. The Phoenix King knew that the shadow army could not stop
him, and Alith had to know that as well. That did not make the prospect
of fighting a fresh battle any more encouraging. The druchii had tried
for more than twenty years to defeat the Anars, what chance did he have?

‘You have my agreement,’ said Caledor. ‘For the moment. You cannot allow
Malekith to regroup. I will return to Nagarythe in the spring with my
army to finish this, if you have not done so already.’

‘You would be given commands by this Naggarothi whelp?’ snarled Dorien,
taking a step.

‘Shut up, Dorien!’ snapped Caledor.

‘Listen to your brother, Dorien,’ said Alith. ‘Your tongue will be your
death, and the deaths of many others.’

Growling wordlessly, Dorien stalked away, flicking a dismissive hand at
Alith as he departed. The Shadow King lowered his bow, though the arrow
remained nocked to its string.

‘Thank you,’ said Alith. ‘I will leave now, but be assured we will be
watching. When you have taken care of your dead, march east.’

Caledor said nothing. The Shadow King withdrew into the darkness,
merging with the night. Caledor waited for a while, until reports came
back from across the camp that the shadow army had also gone.

In his heart he knew he could not trust Alith Anar to deliver on his
promise. Even with the army of Nagarythe all but destroyed, Anlec would
be no easy victory. Malekith and Morathi would not submit until the last
of their strength was spent.

Now was not the time to pick another fight. The Phoenix King would give
Alith a chance to try and fail, and would return in the spring with his
army to finish the war for good. If anything, the shadow army would wear
down the last resistance, making the final task easier for Caledor.

As he drifted off to sleep, Caledor was filled with relief. The fighting
was not yet done, but the war was almost over. Nagarythe’s armies would
not swiftly recover from their defeat, if at all.

There was nothing the Witch King could do now, his last gambit had
failed.
