
SIX 

The Hunters Set Forth

As Carathril began his voyage across the Inner Sea, the Isle of the
Flame was alive with activity. Ships were sent to gather more soldiers
to protect the surviving princes and other heralds despatched to warn
the kingdoms of what had happened and the proposed election of Imrik.
Unknown to those at the Shrine of Asuryan, Bathinair and the Anlec
knights bore the body of Malekith westwards. By sorcerous means they
arranged for a caravan to meet them on an isolated stretch of the
Ellyrian coast and in secrecy they passed over the plains and across the
mountains.

They travelled to Tor Anroc, and cloaking the events at the shrine in
lies, spread the news of the massacre. In the dismay and confusion,
Morathi was allowed to leave with the body of her son and they travelled
north to Anlec.

As they passed through one of the massive gatetowers of the city,
Morathi sat upon a carriage next to Malekith. She had said nothing since
leaving Tor Anroc, and simmered with a rage that surpassed even the
anger she had felt when Bel Shanaar had been chosen over her son to be
Phoenix King.

‘This is no slight on your character,’ she whispered. ‘This is no mere
insult. This is an attack upon Nagarythe, and assault upon the memory of
your father. I have been too lenient with these fools. Your death will
be avenged.’

She laid a hand upon the shrouded body as tears of fire rolled down her
cheeks. She pictured Ulthuan ablaze with war, the usurpers and their
petty princes screaming their apologies as her warriors put them to the
sword. She would raise monuments to her son as grand as those dedicated
to her late husband, and every elf would pay homage to his greatness.

So wrapped up in these thoughts was Morathi that she almost did not
notice the quiver of movement beneath her fingertips.

Unsure if she had imagined it, she sat immobile for a dozen heartbeats,
her hand resting on the covered chest of Malekith. She decided it had
been the carriage jostling over the pavement and was about to take away
her hand.

It came again, the slightest tremble.

With a gasp of joy and relief, Morathi pulled back the shroud to reveal
Malekith’s ravaged face. Where once he had been so dashing, so handsome,
a ruin remained. Bone and charred flesh were fused, sinew exposed.

‘You are as strong as your father,’ she whispered, lowering her mouth to
the ragged remnants of her son’s ear. She cradled his head against her
cheek, and kissed Malekith’s burnt flesh. ‘You are Aenarion’s heir, true
king of the elves.’

There was a rattling hiss of breath from the lipless mouth.

As charred skin cracked and flaked, an eye opened, a pale orb in the
dark ruin. It stared ahead, sparks of mystical energy dancing in the
pupil. The sparks became an ember, became a tiny flame of magic. The
flame grew and darkened, the whole eye becoming a flickering hole of
dark fire. At its depth, a pinprick of redness appeared.

The skinless jaw opened. A rasp escaped, wordless. Fingers twitched
beneath the shroud.

‘Lie still, my brave son,’ said Morathi, her tears now of relief,
dropping like liquid pearls onto Malekith’s face. ‘Save your strength. I
will look after you. You will be restored. I swear it by my own life.’

A ravaged arm pushed up past the edge of the shroud, shedding blackened
skin, thin rivulets of blood streaming from the hand. Fingers little
more than charred bone curled around the back of Morathi’s head, pulling
her closer, stroking her hair.

The world was a blur of light and dark, noise and silence, pain and
numbness. Voiceless screams echoed in Malekith’s ears, shrieking to the
slow beat of his heart. Everything burned. Every part of his body was a
fire of agony. Even his mind, his spirit, was consumed over and over by
the flames, searing into the core of his being.

He welcomed the blackness.

Yet oblivion did not last. There was no respite from the torment heaped
upon his body; no pause in the frustration and anger that ate at his
thoughts. Every breath he took was like taking the fire of the sun into
his lungs. Every slight draught was a gale of razors on his flesh. And
the whispers would not stop; the voices on the edge of hearing, goading
and laughing, cackling at his folly. Wisps of dust swirled about him,
each tiny mote a leering face with pointed teeth. The walls sang to him;
sonorous dirges that spoke of bottomless blackness. The light through
the window, painfully bright, danced upon his withered form, leaving
tiny footprints of ash across his chest.

And so much pain. Unbearable pain. In every pore and muscle, every
shredded nerve and scorched artery. To live was to experience unending
agony.

The blackness came for him again. He greeted it with open arms.

He revived again. He stood upon the edge of an abyss and stared down
into the dark of eternal death. It was so inviting, to take a single
step, to fall into the peace of ending. One step. One small step and the
agony would cease.

‘No,’ he snarled, the single word sending shivers of fresh pain through
his body.

On a bronze mirror, a scene played out in ruddy monochrome. Ships plied
the waters of the Inner Sea, coming and going to the Isle of the Flame.
The island itself was shrouded in a fog, obscured from Morathi’s viewing
by the enchantments of the priests. What went on within the walls of the
Shrine of Asuryan was unknown to her, but such frenetic activity on the
sea nearby told her everything she needed to know; the rest could be
assumed.

Morathi waved a hand to dismiss the image; it was replaced in the full
length mirror by her reflection. She took a moment to admire what she
saw, running a hand over the curve of her waist and hip, tracing a
finger along the delicate line of cheek and jaw. She raked slender
fingers through her lustrous hair, shuddering at her own touch.

The moment was interrupted. In the reflection a figure appeared in the
doorway behind Morathi. She turned to see Bathinair.

‘Thyriol rallies the princes,’ he said. He held up a bloodstained, torn
parchment. ‘Our agents took this message from a Sapherian herald. They
seek to elevate Imrik to the Phoenix Throne, your majesty.’

Morathi plucked the tattered letter from Bathinair’s hand and glanced at
it. She could smell the blood, the ink, and fragrant oil from
Bathinair’s skin.

‘An obvious choice,’ she said. ‘Why was he not slain with the others?’

‘He did not attend the council,’ Bathinair explained. ‘He ignored Bel
Shanaar’s invitation to go hunting in Chrace with his cousin.’

‘Then we still have opportunity to sow harm upon our enemies,’ said
Morathi, the letter bursting into black flame between her fingers. ‘Go
to the high priest of Khaine, and bring me the deadliest killers in
Anlec.’

‘Assassinate Imrik before he can be made king?’ said Bathinair. ‘I like
it.’

Morathi stalked across the chamber and seized the prince by the throat,
her long black-painted nails drawing blood from skin.

‘I do not care for your likes and dislikes,’ she snarled, letting a
little of the dark magic within her seep into the scratches. Bathinair
hissed and spat like a serpent that had itself been bitten, writhing in
Morathi’s unnaturally strong grip. ‘Bring me the assassins and offer no
opinion.’

She let go of Bathinair and he stumbled back, hands rubbing at the
wounds on his neck.

‘At once, your majesty,’ he said, eyes fearful.

When the prince had gone, Morathi went to the adjoining chamber. Upon a
bier covered in many sheets Malekith lay immobile. He whispered and
murmured words too faint to hear. His fists clenched and opened, his
head jerking slightly from side to side. She laid a hand on his brow,
pained by his delirium. There was no sorcery she possessed that could
heal these wounds, inflicted by divine flame.

She smiled. For all Malekith’s feverish madness, he was recovering. Day
by day she watched him, seeing the tiniest extra life creeping back into
ruined flesh. It would take years for him to be restored, if there were
no setbacks; time enough to bring all of Ulthuan under the rule of
Nagarythe and keep the Phoenix Throne secure for Malekith’s triumphant
return.

There was a stool beside the bed and she sat down, hand still on his
brow. She talked constantly and softly to him, telling the same tales
she had told him when he was a child: tales of Aenarion and gods and
daemons.

The afternoon passed and Morathi comforted her wounded son. She stopped
and went back to the main chamber when she detected the presence of
eight elves in the passageway outside, drawing a curtain across the
doorway to conceal Malekith from prying eyes.

Bathinair entered, seven others following him through the archway. The
assassins had the look of lean, hungry wolves, with pinched faces and
tight muscles. Morathi could feel the touch of dark magic like a cloying
fog, dripping from their swords and blades, pulsing from vials of poison
and rune-crafted jewellery. Blood stained their skin red and slicked
their hair. Tiny skulls and runes of Khaine pierced their flesh on rings
and studs.

She looked each in the eye, seeing no compassion, no mercy, no kindness,
only cold death.

‘Good,’ she said to Bathinair, stroking his cheek. The prince shuddered
for a moment, ecstatic at her touch. ‘You may return to the Athartists
and cavort with them until I summon you again.’

‘Thank you, your majesty,’ said Bathinair, leering at the prospect of
attention from the hedonistic priestesses and cultists.

When he had gone, Morathi commanded the assassins to kneel. They did so,
in a semicircle around her.

‘Imrik must be slain,’ she told them. ‘You will find him and kill him.’

‘Where will he be found?’ asked one of the killers, revealing teeth
filed to points.

‘In Chrace,’ replied Morathi.

‘An elf could get lost for a lifetime in those peaks,’ said another.
‘How are we to find Imrik?’

‘Will your scrying guide us to him?’ asked a third.

‘The vortex is too strong in the Annulii,’ Morathi said. ‘No spell can
pierce the magical winds.’

‘Then you have some trail for us to follow?’ said a fourth.

‘Close your eyes and I will show you,’ Morathi said with a smile.

She chanted, calling on the patrons of the dark winds to bless her
spells. She named them in turn, and with each title the magic in the
chamber thickened and swirled. Morathi felt it coiling about her,
sliding across her flesh, warm and chill, dry and slick. She spat the
words of the incantation she had prepared, each syllable like a fizzing
on her tongue, each sound a clear note in her ears.

Morathi flexed her fingers and arched her back as the dark magic flowed
into and through her. It pulsed along her nerves, setting every sense
alight. With centuries of practice, she calmed herself, forcing the
magic to her bidding, shaping it with her words and thoughts.

The assassins had their faces turned up to her, eyes closed. She thrust
out her hands, bolts of black energy leaping from her fingertips into
the eyes of the Khainites. Each thrashed and screamed, falling to the
floor with flailing limbs as the sorcery poured into them, fusing with
their bodies.

When the spell was cast, Morathi slumped back into a chair, panting and
spent. With a fingertip, she wiped a bead of sweat from her brow, eyes
closed, breath coming in ragged gasps. She touched the fingertip to her
tongue, and tasted the sweet residue of magic on her skin.

Groaning, the assassins recovered, each holding his head, cursing and
swearing at the pain. Morathi opened her eyes and stood up. She walked
along the line of supine elves, towering over them imperiously.

‘You shall know such pain as I feel at Imrik’s continued life,’ she told
them. Stepping over the last, she turned back down the line. ‘The pain
will lessen with every step closer to your prey, and will grow with
every step further from him. I have laid my mark upon you and you shall
not know sleep or thirst or hunger until Imrik is dead. Look at me!’

The assassins raised their heads and looked at Morathi with eyes like
red glass. A black rune smouldered upon the brow of each, burnt into
flesh by sorcery. They winced and writhed, unable to escape the
throbbing pain within their heads.

‘Kill him and you will know pain no longer,’ said Morathi. She pointed a
finger to the door. ‘The more swiftly you complete your task, the sooner
you shall know peace again. Go now to Chrace! Find Imrik! Slay him!’
