
FOURTEEN 

Pursued by Darkness

They made camp just before dawn, in the lee of an overhang upon the
western slope of Anul Arillin. Elthyrior warned them that it was unwise
to move by day and then slipped away, back along the path they had
followed.

The group shared a silent, cold breakfast. Alith sat apart, chewing a
chunk of cured meat, staring at the peaks ahead as the first rays of sun
broke over them. The sight that had once filled him with such joy did
not move him in the slightest.

‘Get some sleep,’ he told the others, before climbing up the overhang to
keep watch. Glancing down, he saw them gather together under their
blankets, like birds seeking each other’s warmth in a nest. He longed
for the sight to stir something in him: a memory of his mother, the hint
of the passion he had felt with Milandith. Instead, his thoughts turned
to Caenthras and the other druchii. Only then did he feel anything, a
deep anger that heated him far more than the rising sun.

Elthyrior returned not long after the sun had fully cleared the peaks.
He arrived hurriedly, panting, and Alith saw that there was a slight cut
upon his brow.

‘We are being followed!’ he said breathless, stooping to stir the
sleeping elves.

‘Who?’ said Alith as he jumped down from the overhang.

‘Renegades of my brethren,’ snarled Elthyrior. ‘Though perhaps it is I
who has been named the renegade. They have thrown in their lot with
Morathi, and I suspect they did some time ago. They tried to trap me but
I escaped. We must hurry though, for they will not be far behind!’

The party readied themselves as swiftly as possible and followed
Elthyrior east and south, climbing up the shoulder of Anul Arillin.
Alith and Elthyrior carried the babes so that Lirian, Heileth and
Saphistia could better keep pace. They followed no track, and instead
hiked across bare stone and along the rocky banks of streams, so that
they left little trail.

‘It will not delay them for long,’ Elthyrior told Alith as they helped
the maidens scramble over a tumble of boulders damming a narrow stream.
‘The raven heralds have means other than eyes and ears to follow their
quarry.’

Onwards and upwards they marched, breaking only occasionally for rest
and drink. Part of Alith hoped the raven heralds would catch them,
longing to exact the first retribution against the druchii. For all his
desire for a confrontation, he put aside his own wants, knowing that it
would be a greater blow against the druchii cause to keep alive the sons
of Yeasir and Elodhir.

By mid-afternoon they had crested a ridge on the southern side of the
mountain. Alith turned to look down the slope, Elthyrior stepping back
to stand beside him. Far below, faint black shapes could be seen moving
amongst the rocks: the raven heralds.

Alith watched for a moment, and saw that there were five of them,
perhaps more. Each led a horse as black as his raven-feathered cloak.

‘Their steeds will be more of a hindrance than help in the mountains,’
said Elthyrior. ‘We should make as much gain as possible before we reach
the plains of Ellyrion and their mounts become an advantage.’

‘Then let us continue,’ said Alith, turning his back on the pursuers.

Alith had never spent a night so high up in the Annulii. The magical
vortex created by Caledor Dragontamer swept through the mountains, drawn
by the waystones erected across Ulthuan. Magic flittered on the edge of
visibility and a deeper sense inside Alith could feel its strength.
Mystical winds vied with each other, twining and splitting, eddying and
gusting across the slopes. Each successive draught brought a strange
sensation, of lingering hope, or deepening despair, warmth or chill,
wisdom or rashness. Though he had lived close to the mountains for all
of his life, this was the first time he had truly felt their presence.

Not only the magical winds disturbed the travellers’ rest. Howls and
roars echoed from the peaks as warped animals defended their
territories. Here in the wilderness, wyverns and manticores, hydras and
basilisks prowled the darkness. The same creatures the druchii had
enslaved for their armies wandered the peaks, enormous predators that
were more than a match for Elthyrior and Alith’s blades.

Though Alith was no stranger to mountaincraft, in these unfamiliar
surrounds he was as dependent on Elthyrior’s guidance as the rest of the
group. The raven herald had a sense for the terrain and its inhabitants
that went beyond familiarity and experience. He had taken them on
circuitous tours to avoid the nests of monsters, and sometimes they had
doubled back on a whispered warning from Elthyrior. As the others slept,
Alith questioned Elthyrior on this.

‘I have told you before that I follow a different path, one laid down by
Morai-heg,’ explained the raven herald. ‘That path leads neither to good
nor ill, save that I do not believe my mistress wishes me to end my
existence in the gullet of some Annulii beast.’

‘But how can you tell where to find this path?’

‘One cannot think about it,’ said Elthyrior. ‘It is an instinct, a
knowing within that guides me. It is something that cannot be seen or
heard or smelt, only felt in your heart. Morai-heg tugs us this way and
that as she is wont, and most pull back against her thread, refusing to
accept her wisdom. I accept the fate she has woven for me and allow her
hand to turn me left or right, to stop me or urge me on as she sees
fit.’

Alith shook his head at this, uncomprehending.

‘But if Morai-heg has chosen our fate already, then what of the
decisions we make?’ he asked. ‘Surely we are more than puppets for the
gods?’

‘Are we?’ said Elthyrior. ‘Aenarion, for certain, dared the gods’ wrath
to save his people, yet did not Khaine claim him as his own? Did not Bel
Shanaar offer himself to the mercy of Asuryan before he became Phoenix
King? Even Morathi wields her power only from the pacts she has made
with the darker gods.’

‘And why should I care for such gods when they clearly do not care for
me?’

‘You should not,’ said Elthyrior, eliciting a frown of confusion from
Alith. The raven herald stoked their small fire as he continued. ‘The
gods are what they are, old and young, lower and higher. Only a fool
attracts their attention or makes demands of them. The druchii do not
realise this, thinking they are free to exhort the cytharai without
consequence as long as the sacrifices are fresh. But what happens if
they are victorious? What if all elves become druchii and Morathi reigns
in terror across the world? There can be no peace, no harmony, no
balance in such a civilisation. Such dark gods thrive on strife and
discord, so there can be no pleasing them.’

Elthyrior turned his earnest eyes upon Alith, fierce in their intensity.

‘That is why we cannot allow the druchii to win,’ he whispered savagely.
‘They are the doom of our people, and their victory will condemn us to a
bloody death at our own hands. Our people cannot live in anger and hate
for all time.’

‘Is it not too late?’ said Alith. ‘The druchii have already divided our
people and brought war, and only more bloodshed and war can follow.’

‘Only if one lives without hope,’ replied the raven herald. ‘We can
fight to achieve peace, knowing that no peace is preserved without
further war. Once we lived in utter bliss, but that can never be
regained. All we can hope for is balance, in ourselves and in our
people.’

Alith pondered this for a while and Elthyrior left him to his thoughts.
Talk of harmony and balance meant nothing to Alith except to reassure
him that only the death of the last druchii would bring peace: to his
people and to him.

For eleven more days they stumbled and clawed their way across the
mountains, buffeted and chilled by the winds. Elthyrior and Alith
pressed the others to keep moving, though Heileth, Saphistia and Lirian
were soon wearied by the labour. At times it was if they walked without
thought, following the lead of their escorts in silence. Though
Elthyrior would occasionally relent and call for the group to stop,
Alith spared only the slightest thought for his companions. He regarded
their presence as a necessary annoyance, a duty to be fulfilled that
kept him from pursuing his true goal. By sunlight and starlight he led
them on until they could walk no further and only then would he allow
them to sleep.

In all this time they saw nothing of their pursuers. Elthyrior would
sometimes remain behind to keep watch, but whenever he reappeared he
reported that they were alone. The news brought little cheer to Alith,
for as Elthyrior warned the raven heralds would soon close the gap upon
them once they were out of the mountains.

Having crossed the back of the peaks, the going became easier as the
steepest peaks quickly gave way to the shallower mounts of Ellyrion.
Within the encircling wall of the Annulii, the weather was warmer and
the winds gentler, and they made swift progress. For three more days
they descended, leaving behind the barren peaks, finding themselves once
again amongst sparse forest and grassy valleys.

It was with a mixture of relief and trepidation that the party made camp
in a dell nestled at the foot of the mountains. Alith stood atop a steep
hill nearby and looked across Ellyrion. Dawn was rising and in the
growing light he could see the grasslands of the Ellyrians stretching
out to the south and east. As the sun rose it bathed the grass in its
ruddy light, creating a glowing sea that undulated in the wind. Perhaps
once Alith may have marvelled at the natural beauty of the plains, but
his only thought was that there would be nowhere to hide in such open
country.

‘We should head south and find a river to follow,’ said Elthyrior,
striding up the slope.

Alith replied with a quizzical look.

‘I do not know these lands, and neither do you,’ Elthyrior explained.
‘But the herds of the Ellyrians need water as much as elves, so a river
will give us the greatest chance of reaching a settlement.’

Alith shook his head.

‘We cannot be sure of the loyalties of any Ellyrians we meet,’ he said.
‘I have heard only that Prince Finudel has sworn to aid King Caledor. We
need to make for Tor Elyr as directly as possible.’

‘And you know the way to Finudel’s city?’ Elthyrior replied with a
doubtful look.

‘While you learnt to speak with crows and listen to Morai-heg, I was
shut up in a study with my tutors who thrust maps of Ulthuan beneath my
nose,’ said Alith. ‘Tor Elyr lies south of here, just east of the Eagle
Pass from Tiranoc. It is situated on an inlet of the Inner Sea where the
rivers Elyranath and Irlana meet the waves.’

Elthyrior nodded, impressed. Then a new doubt crossed his face.

‘Eagle Pass is at least eight days’ march to the south,’ he said. ‘And
that is if we suffer no delay from our frail companions. The dark riders
will surely catch us before then.’

‘Not only that, but the druchii hold the pass,’ Alith said with a grim
smile. ‘I would be surprised if we could reach Tor Elyr unhindered, but
it is there we must deliver our charges. There is a forest between the
Elyranath and the Annulii, Athelian Toryr, which should provide us with
some cover.’

Alith pointed south to illustrate his point. In the dawn gloom a darker
shadow could be seen on the eastern flanks on the mountains, starting
just at the horizon.

‘We can reach Athelian Toryr within two days,’ he added.

Elthyrior thought about this for a moment, lips pursed.

‘There is an alternative,’ said the raven herald. ‘The Ellyrian herds
wander the meadows; we could find one and secure ourselves some steeds.’

‘Steal horses?’ Alith replied with disgust, though his disregard for the
idea quickly passed as he considered the thought. He nodded
appreciatively. ‘If we see such a herd before we reach the forest, then
perhaps you are right. For the moment, we head south, following the
hills.’

Elthyrior signalled his assent and the pair returned to the camp.

They set off as the sun climbed higher in the sky, trusting to swiftness
rather than darkness for safety, following the hills to the south-west
at the feet of the Annulii. Now that he had a plan, Alith’s mood lifted
slightly at the thought that soon he would be free of this burden, free
to pursue his own war against the druchii.

He gave that matter some thought as they walked, daydreaming of the
punishments he would exact upon Caenthras and the others once he had the
opportunity. Gone was the shattered emptiness that had consumed him
after the fall of Elanardris. He imagined returning to Nagarythe with
more warriors, to challenge those who ruled from Anlec.

With these darkly entertaining thoughts, the time passed quickly, and
soon it was midday. They came across a stream running swiftly down from
the mountains and stopped a while to drink, fill their canteens and
catch fresh fish to eat. Alith felt none of the pleasure of this simple
activity, his mind fixed solely on thoughts of the future. He was only
aware of the delay, which nagged silently at him as he stooped into the
waters to snatch up fish with his bare hands while Elthyrior kept watch
to the north.

Having refreshed themselves and eaten, the group moved on, following the
path of the stream. It meandered to the south and Alith hoped that this
would lead them to the Elyranath. Ahead the slopes of the mountains
darkened with trees, still more than a day’s travel away. Alith pushed
them on, seeking the sanctuary of the woods.

The next day brought fresh hope, for the stream they followed came to a
greater river, which Alith was convinced was the Elyranath. It swept
powerfully from the north, heading almost directly south.

‘If only there were boats,’ said Saphistia. ‘We could rest and travel
swiftly at the same time.’

With this in mind, they searched the banks of the river but could find
no sign of such craft. It seemed the Ellyrians preferred their steeds to
water. The search was not entirely in vain, for just upriver the waters
widened and slowed at a ford. Elthyrior and Alith both spied fresh
hoofmarks on the banks to either side, many horses having stopped to
drink before moving off to the east.

‘I see no print of boots,’ remarked Elthyrior. ‘I would say the horses
are not tended.’

‘Or perhaps the riders simply did not dismount,’ countered Alith.
‘Either way, neither of us can say how far the herd has travelled since
crossing. It could be many hours away by now.’

‘There is a means by which we might find out,’ said Elthyrior, turning
away.

Alith and the others watched as the raven herald strode away from the
river, up a small rise to the west. Here he sat upon its crest, almost
hidden in the long grass, with his legs crossed and his arms held out to
either side of him. He remained unmoving for some time and Alith chafed
at staying in one place for so long. Continually his gaze strayed to the
north, his eyes searching the hills for any sign of the dark riders.

Just as Alith was about to interrupt, irritated at this unnecessary
delay, Elthyrior lifted his head back and let out a long whistling
sound, which deepened into a low cawing. The noise swirled around Alith.
The cry rose and fell in volume and pitch, creating harmonious echoes
within itself, as if it came from many throats. Alith could feel the
magic bound within the call lifting up, spreading higher and higher, and
he turned his gaze to the clear skies.

He saw nothing at first. After a moment a black speck appeared to the
north. Another came from the south, swiftly followed by several more.
Other dark dots converged from every direction, revealing themselves as
crows as they neared. Alith guessed there to be several dozen as they
flocked together high above the hill, wheeling and swooping, the
cacophony drowning out Elthyrior’s ululation.

An eerie silence then followed. One-by-one the crows dipped to the
hillside, settling in the grass on and beside the raven herald until he
was obscured by a shuffling, ruffling crowd of feathers and beaks. The
crows hopped and fluttered around Elthyrior, each cawing out in turn, as
if in council. Alith watched with amazement as Elthyrior stood, the
flock leaping into the air, circling around him.

With a sweep of his hand, Elthyrior bid the birds to leave and in a
great mass they climbed into the air, shrieking their farewells. As
suddenly as they had arrived they were gone, each flying back the way it
had come.

The raven herald walked down the hillside, his expression grim.

‘I have news, both good and ill,’ he said. ‘The herd that crossed the
river has no guardians, and is but a short walk to the east, beyond that
next line of hills.’

‘That is the good news?’ asked Heileth.

‘It is,’ replied Elthyrior. He turned to the north and pointed towards a
towering white cliff they had passed early that morning. ‘The dark
riders are close on our heels, passing that bluff. If we cannot take
steeds they shall be on us before nightfall.’

‘Perhaps we can find a more defensible position further into the hills,’
suggested Alith.

‘It will be to no avail,’ said Elthyrior, shaking his head. ‘They will
come at us in the darkness, clothed in shadow. I do not know if they
mean to kill us or capture us, but we cannot fight them. There are eight
of them, and we have no bows with which we might even the odds.’

‘We must get horses!’ said Lirian, clasping her son protectively to her
chest as if the riders were bearing down on them at that moment. ‘We
can’t allow them to catch us. Think what terrible things they will do to
us!’

Elthyrior looked to Alith, seemingly happy to abide by his judgement.
Alith considered his options and liked none of them, but for all that he
wracked his mind he could not conceive of any better plan.

‘We’ll make for the herd,’ he announced. ‘If we cannot fight, then the
swiftest flight is our best option.’

Though he sounded confident, Alith had no hope that they would outrun
their pursuers. Perhaps for a day or two they would stay ahead, but it
was still a long way to Tor Elyr and the dark riders would be
relentless. If they came across a place that they could defend with any
surety, he resolved they would stop and fight rather than be caught
unawares.

As they headed east, Elthyrior walked beside Alith.

‘There is something else that you should know,’ he said quietly.

‘What is it?’

‘I did not want to alarm the others, but my summoning of the crows will
have been felt by my former brethren. Just as they can spy for me, the
crows will spy for them. Such birds have little loyalty. The dark riders
will soon know that we are mounted and will ride all the harder to catch
us.’

Nightfall found the group riding into the eaves of Athelian Toryr. As
Alith had feared, though their stolen mounts proved faster than
travelling on foot, their progress had not been as swift as it could
have been. He did not have much horse riding experience, having had
little opportunity to learn in his youth, while all except Elthyrior
were unused to riding without saddle and harness. The Ellyrian steeds
had been docile enough, and ran like the wind when urged, but Saphistia
and Lirian, carrying their sons, had been afraid to give their steeds
their full run. At times they had been forced to slow to a walk as the
path wound round loops in the river or crossed other streams, and Alith
knew such things would not delay the dark riders.

Picking their way slowly under the tree canopy, the fugitives continued
south by the dim starlight that broke through the leaves. Alith
constantly looked over his shoulder, expecting to see shadowy riders
closing on them at any moment. Elthyrior seemed content, his gaze fixed
ahead, or perhaps he simply accepted that there would be no warning of
attack.

As the pale light of Sariour breached the roof of leaves, they came
across a clearing, the stumps of felled trees stretching for several
hundred paces. The smell of sawdust hung in the air.

‘These have been freshly hewn,’ said Elthyrior.

‘There may be a lodge close at hand,’ said Alith. ‘Spread out and seek a
path.’

The group did as he asked while Alith halted and turned back the way
they came, keeping watch for pursuit. It was not long before he heard
Heileth calling from the north-west. Alith guided his horse into a trot
with a word, crossing the clearing swiftly. He found Heileth at the edge
of the open area, Lirian and Elthyrior already with her. A wide trail in
the fallen leaves and undergrowth struck out to the north, into the
hills.

Saphistia soon joined them and, dismounting, they followed the path
speedily, Alith at the fore, Elthyrior guarding the rear. Ahead
something white shimmered in the moonlight. As he came through the trees
Alith saw that it was a lodge, built of narrow planks, painted white. It
had a steep tiled roof and a stone chimney, though the narrow, arched
windows were dark and no smoke could be seen.

Elthyrior appeared and signalled for the group to halt before vanishing
to the left. Alith drew his sword and turned about, seeking any sign of
danger. A few roosting birds flapped from tree to tree and nocturnal
hunters rummaged amongst the undergrowth. An owl called in the distance,
but all else was still, even the wind. The starlight came fitfully
through the branches, dappling the pathway and the clearing beyond.

Elthyrior emerged from the right, having circled the lodge.

‘It is empty,’ he told them. ‘Whoever felled the trees has moved further
south today.’

‘Should we stay, or move on?’ asked Lirian. ‘Anataris is so tired, as am
I. Can we not rest here for a while? Perhaps the riders will pass us
by.’

‘And then be between us and Tor Elyr,’ said Elthyrior. ‘No, we should
not stop.’

Alith was about to agree when Elthyrior sharply raised his hand, warning
for silence. The raven herald slowly drew his sword and waved Lirian
towards the lodge.

‘Get inside,’ he whispered, his eyes fixed upon something out in the
woods.

Alith followed his gaze, but could see nothing. He took Heileth by the
arm and led her to the door, Lirian and Saphistia following close
behind. When they were inside, Alith brought the horses around the back
of the lodge, where a small stable was built against the back wall.
Having hidden the mounts, he returned to the front of the building,
where Elthyrior was crouched beside a tree close to the path.

Keeping low, Alith joined the raven herald. Peering around the tree
trunk, he allowed his eyes to lose focus, looking for movement rather
than detail. Things scratched in the dirt and shuffled in the leaves but
he saw nothing else.

Then, no more than two hundred paces away, he spied a shadow. It moved
slowly, seeming to seep from one tree to the next, momentarily blotting
out the patches of starlight. Once he was aware of it, Alith watched
more closely, following its course as it approached from the north,
skirting around the edge of the clearing.

‘There are three more to the south,’ said Elthyrior, his voice nothing
more than the barest sigh.

The raven herald tapped Alith on the arm and motioned slowly towards the
lodge. Rising, the pair stepped backwards, inching away from the path.
There was another hoot of an owl and Alith realised the call came from
no bird. The shadow ahead stopped for a moment and then changed
direction, heading directly across the clearing towards them.

Elthyrior sprang up, dragging Alith by the arm. The two bolted for the
lodge, swerving left and right. An arrow whistled past, catching Alith’s
cloak before thudding into the wooden frame of the door. Another hit the
door itself as Elthyrior wrenched it open.

‘Get away from the windows!’ the raven herald snarled. At his
instruction Saphistia, Lirian and Heileth cowered behind the stone
hearth, the two children huddled tight amongst them.

The inside of the lodge was a single open room, with windows to the
north, south and east, the fireplace to the west. A long table with two
benches dominated the centre of the lodge. Sheathing his blade, Alith
crossed to the other side and looked out.

There was another shadow, a few dozen paces away, watching.

‘Help me,’ said Elthyrior, motioning towards the table. Between them,
they managed to tilt it upon its side and scraped it across the
leaf-patterned tiles to block the doorway.

Glass shattered as an arrow sped into the room, glancing off the mantel
of the fireplace. Several more followed, snicking from the hearth. Alith
crouched beneath the southern window and glanced out. He saw the
flickering of a flame and then a flash of orange as a fire-tipped arrow
sped towards the window, landing just short, smoke spiralling up from
the sill.

‘They’ll burn us out!’ hissed Alith as more flame-arrows came through
the windows, thudding into the benches and skittering from the floor.

Heileth darted forwards, tamping down the burning arrows with her cloak,
her demeanour calm. Another missile sped inwards and caught her in the
leg just below the knee and she fell backwards with a suppressed squeal
of pain. Alith grabbed her under the arms and hauled her to the others.
A quick glance showed that the wound was not deep.

‘Bind it,’ he said, looking at Saphistia. He heard the sound of tearing
cloth as he turned back to the windows.

The fire-arrows had not done much damage to the seasoned wood of the
lodge, but smoked fitfully where they had hit. Alith glanced towards the
back of the lodge and saw a raven-cloaked figure moving closer to the
stable.

Alith leapt through the broken window with a crash, snatching his sword
free. The raven herald straightened in surprise as Alith dashed across
the ground between them. The druchii tossed aside a bow and a gloved
hand pulled free a slender blade as Alith reached his foe.

Alith swung back-handed towards the raven herald’s head. His enemy
ducked and Alith almost lost his footing, stepping to his right to
regain balance. The herald lunged, raven-feather hood falling back,
revealing a cruelly beautiful face. Alith was almost caught by the
thrust, momentarily stunned by the maiden’s appearance.

He raised his sword to parry another blow, stepping backwards again
until he sensed the stable wall at his back. Dodging to the left, he
avoided the next attack, the herald’s sword carving a furrow in the
white planks.

Alith spun away from the next thrust, bringing his sword swinging up.
The blade cut into his foe’s arm, under the shoulder, and blood sprayed
in the starlight. The raven herald gasped, lurching away, and Alith
swiftly followed, driving the point of his sword into her back. She
twisted as she fell, blood dribbling from her lips and running down her
pale chin. Her eyes were filled with hate.

A shout from Elthyrior brought Alith back to the window to see flames
flickering along the eastern wall, lapping at the window. The fire was
taking hold and smoke was quickly filling the chamber despite the broken
windows. Lirian was sobbing in the nook beside the fire, bent
protectively over her son.

A flash of panic crossed Elthyrior’s face as he realised the peril of
their situation. If they stayed inside the smoke would choke them, if
they left they would be easy prey for the raven heralds’ bows.

‘Out the back,’ snapped Alith, gesturing to Saphistia. He took
Durinithill as she clambered through the window and then handed back
Yeasir’s son, gesturing for Lirian to follow.

‘Wait!’ said Elthyrior. He pointed towards the southern windows.
‘Listen!’

Alith froze, his breathing still. He could hear nothing for a moment,
but then his keen ears detected something at odds with the sounds of the
forest. It was a tremor, distant but powerful. Dashing to the side of
the lodge he saw white shapes moving quickly through the woods.

Riders!

From the south and east the Ellyrian reavers came, upon pearl-white
steeds, dashing amongst the trees with reckless speed. There were dozens
of them, galloping between the boles, bows in hand. The raven heralds
turned in shock as the Ellyrians thundered across the clearing and
streamed up either side of the path. One of the heralds loosed arrows as
they approached, felling three knights before the shafts of the other
Ellyrians found him, hurling him into the bushes with four arrows in his
chest. The surviving raven heralds fled, disappearing into the shadows
between the shafts of starlight, skimming from trunk to trunk before
vanishing completely.

The riders of Ellyrion quickly encircled the lodge and Alith was struck
by the memory of his first encounter with these headstrong folk, so many
years ago. He searched their stern faces but recognised none. Climbing
back into the lodge, Alith helped Elthyrior pull the table from the door
and the two of them stepped out, dropping their swords to the ground.

‘Once again it seems I owe my life to the proud knights of Ellyrion,’
said Alith, forcing a smile.

The knights’ captain, his silver breastplate chased with sapphires in
the form of a rearing horse, urged his steed forwards. He stowed his bow
and brought forth a long spear whose tip flickered with magical energy.

‘Do not be so glad to see me,’ he said fiercely. ‘In Ellyrion, spies and
horse thieves are punished with death.’
