
SIX 

Beasts in the Mountains

What Aernuis had said proved to be true; the dwarfs were reluctant to
treat with any outsiders. However, the Eataine prince’s long standing in
Karak Izril and his exemplary behaviour in the capital had garnered him
a measure of respect, and by association this passed also to Malekith.

The Naggarothi ruler despatched some of his company to return to Athel
Toralien, so that proper scribes and diplomats could come to
Karaz-a-Karak. The dwarfs laboured likewise, assembling embassies from
the many holds across the mountains, for these debates concerned not
just Karaz-a-Karak but all of the dwarf empire.

It took the whole of the summer for the preparations to be made, and
Malekith was always careful to send regular missives back to Ulthuan so
that no suspicion was aroused, whilst conveying as little information as
possible so that he would personally remain pivotal to the discussions.
This position of influence was helped considerably by the fact that the
three elves in the world that had some true understanding of dwarfish
were allies of Malekith – Aernuis, Alandrian and Sutherai.

In that time, Malekith also went to great lengths to befriend King
Snorri, at first seeking political power but later out of an unexpected
but growing affection for the High King. As Malekith’s grasp of the
dwarfs’ language improved, he spent more time with Snorri.

‘What is best about Nagarythe?’ the High King asked one day.

The two were alone in a reception room of the king’s chambers. Malekith
sat upon a chair the king had personally commissioned for his tall
companion, while the king slouched in a deep armchair upholstered in
thick elk hide. The servants had left a keg of ale and a large plate of
pies on the low table that lay between them.

‘The blue skies,’ Malekith answered without hesitation. ‘The air is cold
and crisp and the north wind stirs the senses. Sometimes she sighs
through the pine forests, other times she howls over the mountain
peaks.’

‘And what do you think of my mountains?’ said Snorri. ‘Do they compare
to your homeland?’

‘They are mighty,’ laughed Malekith. ‘Taller than the peaks of Nagarythe
and greater of girth. But I travelled beneath them for the most part and
have not yet walked upon them.’

‘That will not do!’ declared Snorri, jumping to his feet. ‘What host am
I to show you my rooms and keep from you the beauty of my lands? Do you
enjoy hunting?’

‘Very much,’ said Malekith. ‘I have tracked and slain many a monstrous
beast in the Annulii.’

‘Have you ever killed a troll?’ asked Snorri enthusiastically. ‘A
cragwyrm, or a daggerfang?’

Malekith shook his head. Such beasts were unknown to Ulthuan, at least
by the names used by Snorri.

‘Then we shall have a troll hunt!’ declared Snorri with a wide grin
splitting his beard.

Two days later Malekith found himself stood upon a windswept shoulder of
rock looking over a deep mountain valley. He was several miles to the
north of Karaz-a-Karak, accompanied by Alandrian, the High King and
several dozen dwarf escorts. Though the year was well into spring, the
mountain air was still chill and the hunting party were swathed in capes
and furs. Only a few clouds scudded across the skies, and when the sun
broke free the prince could feel his skin prickling with warmth.

Snorri pointed across the valley to a thick forest. The trees were
immense in girth, though not tall, not unlike the dwarfs. Square
clearings had been chopped into the edges of the woods by dwarfen
woodcutters.

‘Wutruth,’ said the king. ‘The strongest trees of the mountains. This
forest is older than Karaz-a-Karak, and we cut only five trees every
year so that its descendants have time to grow. It is also a haunt of
strange and dangerous beasts.’

‘That is why we are here,’ said Malekith with a smile.

‘It is indeed,’ said Snorri.

The High King was full of energy as he led the party down a winding
track that meandered between rocky crags towards the valley floor. He
bounded from stone to stone with an agility surprising for his stature,
though Malekith had no difficulty keeping pace with his long, graceful
strides. As they walked, Snorri gave a running commentary of everything
in sight.

‘The peak to the west, with the purple cliffs facing us, is Karag
Kazor,’ the king said. ‘It was upon the fires of her belly that Grungni
forged the first of Grimnir’s axes.’

A huge flock of dark-feathered birds with bright red beaks swooped
overhead and disappeared up the valley.

‘Bloodcrows!’ exclaimed Snorri. ‘That is a good omen! They are
scavengers. To see them in such numbers means that there is plenty to
eat. Something close by has been killing!’

And so it went on, with Snorri expounding on every type of rock and
plant, bird and beast that they encountered. As the sun reached her
zenith, ­bathing the valley in warmth, they reached the well-tended
treeline. The forest was dark and clear of undergrowth, the wutruth
seeming to claw nourishment from the bare rock.

‘If you would like to take a small repast, I’ll be back shortly,’ said
Snorri.

With a handful of dwarf warriors, the High King headed into the woods
and was quickly lost in the shadows. The dwarfs that remained sat down
on rocks and stumps, and brought forth hard bread and pungent cheeses
from their carry-sacks.

Malekith was not hungry and instead watched the dwarfs carefully. They
seemed at ease, but every now and then they would glance at their
charges. Though the prince considered that they might simply be mindful
of their protective duties, he decided that they were present more to
protect the High King from any perfidy by the elves.

Snorri returned shortly, a satisfied smile written upon his craggy
features.

‘Clawed tracks, big ones!’ said the High King. ‘Not too old either, by
my reckoning.’

The king gave the order for the party to get ready to move, which was
greeted with quiet, good-natured grumbling. Most dwarfs preferred to
stay underground whenever possible, and Snorri’s companions were no
different. However, they were now used to their High King’s strange
appetites for sky and fresh air, and indulged him with good humour.

They came across the trail a few hundred paces from the edge of the
woods. Malekith bent to one knee to examine them. They were indistinct,
the soil here being very thin, but the prince could make out a large
footprint as long as his arm and exceptionally broad. It was not unlike
orc or goblin tracks, though considerably bigger; four-toed with the
marks of ragged claws.

‘Troll,’ said Snorri with smug confidence. ‘You are fortunate. Most
trolls will have moved further north by this time of year. This one is
either exceptionally stupid or brighter than your average troll.’

‘How so?’ asked Malekith.

‘It could be too stupid to realise it will get too hot for it in the
summer,’ explained the king. ‘Or it could be clever enough to realise
that the other trolls have left and there will be plenty for it to eat
without competition.’

‘Does it make any difference?’ said Alandrian.

‘Yes and no,’ said Snorri with a shrug. ‘A stupid troll will be easier
to catch, but more likely to attack when caught. A smarter troll might
realise it is in danger and try to run away.’

They followed the trail north and eastwards, deeper into the woods. Here
and there they found the gnawed remains of an animal carcass or a pile
of the foulest-smelling dung Malekith had ever encountered. By this
spoor Snorri judged that the troll was close at hand, within a few
miles.

‘It is afternoon now, so it is likely hiding somewhere in a shady spot
out of the sun’s gaze,’ said the High King. ‘There are some caves not
far from here that we should explore. It would be good to catch it
before nightfall, otherwise it might move away and we’ll never find it.’

They continued to follow the tracks, which led towards the caves as
Snorri had hoped. Quite some time had passed and the sun was now
beginning to slide down behind the peaks to the west. Where Malekith
spied the sky through a break in the canopy he saw that clouds were
gathering again and the light was fading fast.

The short mountain day was nearing its end when Snorri brought them out
of the trees onto a high bluff. A white cliff face opposite was dotted
with dark caves, and the High King pointed towards numerous troll tracks
on the ground.

‘He’s here all right,’ growled the High King.

Snorri gestured to one of his retainers, who brought forth the king’s
crossbow. It was a remarkable piece of dwarfish craft, inlaid with gems
and silver, its crosspiece and firing lever gilded. As the king loaded
his weapon with measured precision, Malekith brought forth his bow from
the quiver on his back and quickly strung it. He nocked a black-fletched
arrow, casting his gaze towards the caverns only a few hundred paces
distant.

‘How does one hunt troll?’ he asked.

‘Some of my lads will go in and flush it out,’ said Snorri. ‘Or it’ll
chase them out… One way or another, best to lure it into the open
first.’

‘And where does one aim for the killing shot?’ said the prince.

Snorri laughed.

‘This is no bear or stag that can be brought down with a single shaft,’
the dwarf said. ‘Their brains are exceptionally small, and I’ve seen a
troll carry on fighting with three bolts through its thick head. Their
heart is in the chest behind strong bone. Fire is a good bet, for burnt
flesh does not regrow.’

In illustration, the king handed one of his bolts to Malekith and
pointed to the tip. A small rune was inscribed into the sharpened iron,
flickering with a distant flame.

‘It might take some bladework to finish it off,’ the king added, taking
back the bolt.

Malekith pondered this as more than a dozen dwarfs headed across the
open ground, flaming brands in their rough fists. He felt no fear, for
there was no creature in the world that he could not best. His heart did
beat a little faster in anticipation, and the prince could see that
Snorri was equally eager to get a sight of their prey.

The High King felt Malekith’s gaze and turned to wink at the elf.

‘Good fun, eh?’ Snorri chuckled.

The torch-bearing dwarfs had now entered the caves and the light from
their brands disappeared. Soon enough there came the echo of shouts and
three dwarfs came running from a cave entrance to Malekith’s left. They
glanced over their shoulders, not in panic but to ensure their quarry
was following.

A dozen paces behind them emerged the troll.

It was tall and gangling, easily twice Malekith’s height, with wiry,
muscled limbs and a bulbous stomach. Its head was large and ungainly,
with a flattened nose and small, unintelligent eyes. Its hide was like a
thick grey scale, hairless save for clumps upon its head and shoulders.
Large and frayed pointed ears framed its hideous face, and its mouth was
wide and filled with cracked teeth. Its long arms ended in club-like
hands, its bony fingers tipped with broken, filthy claws.

The troll gave a keening howl as it lolloped after the dwarfs, stooping
to knuckle forwards every few paces, sniffing the air.

Snorri took the first shot, at a distance of some three hundred paces.
His crossbow twanged loudly and as the bolt flew forwards its tip
erupted with flame. The shot took the troll in the left shoulder and
elicited a pained grunt.

The dwarfs scattered further as the troll broke into a run down the
gentle slope towards Malekith and the High King. Calming himself,
Malekith took aim, his breathing shallow, his senses tuned to the swirl
of the wind. He muttered a simple incantation and his arrowhead
flickered with blue flame. With a sigh, Malekith released the bowstring
and the arrow sped across the open ground and struck the troll directly
in the left eye.

The troll fell to the ground with flailing limbs, screeching and
gurgling. The prince turned to Snorri, who was still winding back the
string on his crossbow.

‘No killing shot?’ said Malekith with a smile.

‘Don’t count your gold until the ore’s been smelted,’ grunted Snorri,
not looking up from his task.

Malekith turned back to the troll and stared open-mouthed as it pushed
itself back to its feet. The prince’s shaft was intact, piercing the eye
socket, its flaming tip protruding from the top of the troll’s head. It
turned its good eye on the hunters and gave an angry roar before
breaking into a bounding run that covered the ground with surprising
speed.

‘Oh…’ said Malekith.

Regaining his composure, Malekith loosed three more shots at the
fast-approaching monster, each arrow bursting into blue fire as it
slammed into the creature’s chest. Now even more angry, the troll
lowered its head into a reckless charge, its clawed feet churning clods
of thin earth from the ground.

Snorri fired another bolt, which punched into the creature’s right leg,
just above the knee. It stumbled and fell. It stayed on all fours for a
moment, shaking its head groggily, before rising once more and resuming
its attack.

The other dwarfs began to shout to each other and a flurry of bolts
converged on the troll, some missing, others biting into flesh but with
little effect. The troll turned on the closest of its attackers, a dwarf
by the name of Godri who was one of the king’s closest companions. Claws
raked across the thane’s armour, sending iron rings scattering across
the floor with droplets of blood, the dwarf hurled onto his back.

The troll then veered back towards Malekith and Snorri, crimson splashed
across its face and arms.

Snorri was still winding back the string of his crossbow and the troll
was only a score of paces away. Malekith drew Avanuir and leapt to the
attack, the shining blue blade carving a furrow in the creature’s ribs
as the elven prince darted past. The troll ignored him and bore down on
Snorri.

The High King threw his unloaded crossbow into the creature’s face and
swept out a hand axe from his belt. His first chopping blow lodged into
the creature’s gut and the troll’s momentum barrelled them both over.
The two rolled down the slope, the troll biting and slashing, Snorri
hacking with his axe.

Malekith dashed after the High King even as the other dwarfs closed in
with axes ready. The troll was now on top of Snorri and reared its head
back, jaws open wide to bite off the face of the High King.

Seizing his opportunity, Malekith threw Avanuir, guiding the blade with
the power of magic. Spinning horizontally, the magical sword scythed
through the air. It struck the troll at the base of its skull and
sheared off the top of its head, leaving nothing but neck and lower jaw.
Avanuir continued swirling past, over Snorri, before looping back again
and lancing into the troll’s chest.

With a shudder, the troll pitched forwards, pinning Snorri beneath its
lifeless bulk.

Malekith was at the High King’s side in a moment, and was relieved to
see Snorri was still breathing. The dwarf’s eyes flickered open, and
between the two of them they hauled the troll to one side, allowing the
High King to regain his feet.

Foul blood and mucus had spilled onto the dwarf king, matting his beard
and staining his mail armour. Drips of gore hung from the brow of his
helm, seeping into his braided hair. Snorri used a gauntleted hand to
distastefully scrape what he could from his person, and then turned to
Malekith and adopted a regal pose, shoulders set, chin held high.

‘Congratulations,’ said the High King. ‘You’ve killed your first troll!’

The growing friendship between prince and High King was cemented during
the latter part of the summer, some twenty days before the negotiations
were due to begin in earnest. Word had come to the capital that an army
of beastmen was gathering south of the massive mountain lake known as
Black Water, and was of such a size that the kings of Karak Varn and
Zhufbar feared an attack against one hold or the other.

Upon hearing this news, and having spent much of the season idle in the
halls of Karaz-a-Karak, Malekith’s spirit was roused. Learning that King
Snorri planned an expedition against these Chaos creatures, Malekith
went before the High King in his throne room and offered to lead his
company alongside the dwarfs. Snorri looked doubtful at first.

‘The throng of Karaz-a-Karak stands ready at my command,’ said Snorri.
‘What need do I have for fifty more warriors?’

‘In prosperity allies may learn much about each other, but in hardship
they learn what is most important,’ said Malekith.

‘This is true,’ Snorri said with a nod. ‘However, we stand upon the
brink of important times, and I would not have my descendants remember
me as the dwarf who risked the lives of his new-found friends.’

‘Do not fear for our safety, for we are each warrior-born, none more so
than I,’ replied Malekith. ‘The army of Nagarythe is the most splendid
in all of Ulthuan and, saving perhaps the throng of your hold, the most
powerful force in the world. Though I have but a relative handful of my
warriors present, I would like to demonstrate this to you. We may well
become partners in trade, but in these dangerous times it is as
important that we become comrades upon the battlefield.’

‘There is much truth in what you say,’ said Snorri with a smile. ‘Let it
not be said that I was unwilling to show the elves the true worth of a
dwarf with an axe! In battle we see the proper qualities of courage and
discipline, and perhaps it is time that we had this measure of the
elves.’

‘And we of the dwarfs,’ countered Malekith with a smile.

‘Yes, that too,’ said Snorri with a meaningful look. Both understood
that to see the other in battle would give each a better appraisal of
their prospective allies, their strengths and, if things went ill, their
weaknesses.

So it was that two days after the audience, the Naggarothi readied
themselves for battle once more and marched out with the army of
Karaz-a-Karak. Snorri led the dwarfs, and an impressive host it was.
Positioned at a rampart just above the gate, the elven prince had a
magnificent view of the wide road leading down the mountainside, and the
rank after rank of warriors issuing forth.

Every warrior was different, for each provided his own wargear. Some
carried axes, others hammers, while many carried bows or the mechanical
crossbows that the dwarfs now favoured. Upon their shields were a wild
variety of blazons and runes, though common themes of the different
clans became evident as Malekith stood at the gate of the hold and
watched the throng pass out.

Malekith stood with Aernuis, watching the host as it marched forth. The
rival prince and his companion would not be accompanying the army;
Malekith considered it better that the military spectacle and prowess of
his Naggarothi not be undermined by the presence of the two Eataine-born
elves. Though Malekith had been careful never to claim that all elves
were as brave and strong as the folk of Nagarythe, it was his intent
that King Snorri be left with the impression that this was the case.

The dwarfs were gathered into regiments of warriors from the same clan,
and marched forth beneath the banners of their families and ancestors.
Drummers boomed out martial beats and hornblowers sounded low, mournful
dirges. Some carried newly forged weapons, others wielded heirlooms
passed down from their forefathers, whose names and histories were as
renowned as those that had once wielded them.

Snorri was the most striking individual in the army. He marched at its
head flanked on each side by standard bearers, carrying banners woven
from metallic threads and icons inscribed with magical runes.

‘The one that goes before him bears the icon of the High King,’
explained Aernuis. ‘The dwarf to his right holds the clan standard of
Snorri. On his left is carried the banner of the hold, and the fourth
belongs to Snorri himself.’

The king was protected by an all-encompassing suit of armour, under
which could be seen a layer of heavy mail. Magical sigils were carved
into the polished iron, and these glimmered with energy. His axe was no
less spectacular, for three runes of angular design were cut into its
blade to bring death to the High King’s foes. The two-bladed axe glowed
with mystical power and the king held it above his head as if it were no
more than a feather, and with it waved the throng forwards on the march.
Snorri’s war helm was also golden and likewise inscribed with magical
symbols bestowing courage and kingship.

‘The king’s helm was made by Valaya, or so the dwarfs believe,’ said
Aernuis. ‘The runes upon it cast a spell so that any who look upon the
High King are inspired and awed; to enemies, the High King appears as a
terrifying nightmare that fills their hearts with dread.’

‘I feel nothing, nor do I see any nightmarish vision,’ said Malekith.

‘Then perhaps you are neither friend nor foe,’ said Aernuis.

The prince of Nagarythe looked sternly at Aernuis but could see no hint
of mockery or insult.

‘Perhaps I am simply too far away,’ said Malekith.

About Snorri and his standards were gathered many of the hold’s thanes,
and with them the bodyguard of the king made up of the finest warriors
the clans contained. They were armed with great axes and hammers burning
with fell runes, and wore mail and plates thick enough to ward away all
but the most telling of blows.

These venerable dwarfs had long beards that reached to their ankles; to
protect this precious hair they wore segmented armour tied to the braids
of their beards so that no enemy cut would deprive them of their fine
facial hair. Malekith had learnt much about dwarfs and their beards in
his time at Karaz-a-Karak and it was something of remark, indeed
suspicion, that the elves grew no facial hair at all. ‘Beardling’ was a
phrase oft-used to describe young dwarfs, and ‘beardless’ was tantamount
to dishonourable, a grave insult amongst dwarfkind.

‘They are somewhat of a rabble,’ remarked Malekith, watching the dwarfs
walk out without particular time or rhythm, each sauntering along at his
own rate. They ambled out smoking pipes, eating, chatting and behaving
in other un-warlike fashions that gave Malekith the impression that
while visually impressive, the dwarfen host lacked the gravitas of his
own legions. There was little of the precision and finesse he associated
with the steady ranks of his spear companies.

It also told him a good deal about the dwarf attitude to war, for they
appeared to be no more concerned that they were marching to battle than
if they were out for a pleasant afternoon stroll. Having seen the savage
beastmen and wild orcs, Malekith suspected that the dwarfs had faced
little opposition to their might, and safe in their holds had not truly
been tested in the many years since they first wrested control of the
mountains.

It was while considering this that another thought occurred to Malekith.
The lack of concern showed by the dwarfs might betray an underlying
motive for this expedition. If the confidence of the dwarfs were due to
some prior knowledge concerning the nature of their foe, then might not
it be the case that all of this display was for the benefit of the
elves?

‘What have you heard concerning this horde of beasts?’ Malekith asked.

‘Only that it is sizeable,’ replied Aernuis.

‘It is awfully convenient that the High King feels it necessary to march
out at this time,’ said Malekith. ‘Perhaps they hope to intimidate me
with this display of strength?’

‘That could be,’ said Aernuis, though there was doubt in his voice.

Malekith laughed inwardly at the thought that the dwarfs believed they
could overawe him with such manoeuvres. He had to admire their spirit
though, and regretted not having seen the opportunity himself. Perhaps
if he had allowed a few dwarfs to travel west with his messengers, to
return with tales of how quickly the elven realm was expanding and the
size of her armies, then some of the dwarfen truculence might have been
dislodged.

‘When they see the Naggarothi in battle, they will understand that such
tacit threats are fruitless,’ said Malekith.

‘I am sure that they will, Malekith,’ said Aernuis, his tone and
expression betraying nothing of his own opinion on the matter.

Perhaps the most intriguing aspect of all the army, and the one that
caused Malekith the greatest pause for thought, was its engines of war.
While the elves had machines that could hurl spear-sized bolts from the
decks of their ships or the walls of a castle, the dwarfs had all manner
of ingenious contraptions for the field of battle. Some were small and
carried upon the backs of the dwarfs themselves: spring-weighted slings
that hurled pots of fire and windlass-loaded bows that fired half a
dozen darts with a single shot. Others were grander and were pulled
along by teams of ponies upon specially built wagons with broad wheels
and sprung-loaded axles.

‘These machines, what is their purpose?’ asked the prince of Nagarythe.

‘Each is built individually by the carpenters and smiths of the hold,’
said Aernuis. ‘They view the craft of engineering with the same passion
as we would a jewelsmith or poet. Each pours his own labour and
inspiration into his construction.’

‘So each engine is unique?’ said Malekith, watching the long line of
wagons and limbers winding their way out of the huge gate.

‘Yes,’ Aernuis replied. ‘Like everything else the dwarfs design or make,
each engine is named and recorded in their histories, its exploits as
vaunted as those of a flesh-and-blood hero.’

‘That seems indulgent,’ said Malekith. ‘I would say the dwarfs dwell too
much on the past and do not look to the future keenly enough. That will
be their loss, for forward-thinking elves such as I will be able to
seize better the opportunities that lie ahead.’

‘They plan meticulously, if not with vision,’ said Aernuis. ‘Though
perhaps they lack your flair, they see their rise in strength as
inevitable.’

‘What is that?’ Malekith said, choosing to ignore Aernuis’s warning. He
pointed at a gigantic bolt thrower that fired projectiles so long that
three dwarfs were required to load it.

‘Wolfspear,’ answered Aernuis after a moment’s thought. ‘If I recall
correctly, Wolfspear was the first machine to guard the gates at
Karaz-a-Karak. The legend has it that it slew four giants when first the
hordes of Chaos poured south to besiege the hold.’

‘And what about that catapult thing?’ said Malekith, indicating an
enormous trebuchet followed by a wagon loaded with cunningly carved
rocks as large as horses.

‘Ah, that is Gatebreaker,’ said Aernuis. ‘A mysterious engine. I once
heard an engineer say that it had smashed the dark citadel of
Thagg-a-Durz. When I inquired as to who else but the dwarfs had the
means to create such castles that required attack, the dwarfs fell
silent. Their surly expressions discouraged me from any further
inquiry.’

‘So, there are enemies of the dwarfs that we do not yet know about?’

‘I have heard no other mention of such a race or nation in my time with
the dwarfs,’ said Aernuis. ‘But even when appearing open, there is much
that they do not say to us.’

‘Well, we shall soon see the mettle of our potential allies,’ said
Malekith. Without further acknowledgement of the Eataine prince, he
turned away and swept down the steps from the rampart, his cloak
swirling behind him.

The dwarfish and elven host marched north along a winding road of brick,
which soared over wide valleys on extraordinary bridges that arced over
the gorges in breathtaking spans hundreds of feet above the jagged rocks
and swirling rivers below. In places, the road seemed to barely cling to
the steep sides of the mountain peaks, supported on piles and columns
dozens of feet high driven into the mountainside with immense bolts and
supported by silver-plated scaffolding.

The air was crisp and sharp, even with the full heat of the sun upon
their faces, but the dwarfs walked on relentlessly, seeming never to
tire nor complain. They ate on the march, which Malekith thought
efficient but uncouth, and as he had seen before, when they made camp
every dwarf knew his role and duties and carried out his tasks with
little supervision or communication from his leaders.

It was this quiet independence that gave the dwarfs their real strength,
Malekith admitted to himself as he watched them break camp the following
morning. Each could rely utterly upon his fellows, and the sense of
community and brotherhood bound the dwarfs together as a kindred.

The people of Nagarythe he praised for their discipline, their attention
to duty and their unending dedication, but he knew his folk would never
be lauded for their friendship and hospitality, or for a love of others.

Onwards and northwards marched the army, crossing vale and peak with
monotonous but speedy advance for two more days. Scouts were despatched
by the king to locate the bestial foe, and they returned shortly before
nightfall to report that they had seen fires some miles to the
north-east.

The king was content to allow the army to rest for the night, though he
took pains to point out to Malekith that this was not because the dwarfs
could not march straight to battle, but was rather so that he could
spend the darkest hours in deliberation with his lieutenants, so that
all might know the plan of battle for the coming day.

Before dawn the scouts were again sent out to locate the foe, and they
returned just as the army was ready to march, the breakfast fires having
been extinguished and the wagons packed with their gear. The beastmen, a
savage horde numbering several thousand creatures of greater or lesser
size, had spent the night carousing and celebrating, for it seemed that
they had recently overrun an isolated brewery further north.

News of this attack was greeted by many curses and much wagging of
beards by the dwarfs, who until then had seemed more like the head of a
family dealing with an unruly cousin than an army marching to death and
bloodshed. Now in the belief that these creatures had attacked their
lands, the dwarfs became very serious and Malekith found the change not
only swift but extraordinary. The thought that beastmen had assailed
their realm filled the dwarfs with a simmering anger.

In a few moments the beastmen had been transformed from potential
annoyance to hated enemy, and the dwarf throng made their remaining
preparations in what seemed to be considerable haste, eager to attack
lest their enemies somehow elude them. Speculation about the attack
spread through the army, and as the dwarfs marched out there was a grim
mood utterly unlike the atmosphere that had pervaded the host when it
had left Karaz-a-Karak.

There was little conversation and a solid purpose had now taken hold.
Instead of pipe-smoking the dwarfs ran whetstones over their axe blades
and tested the strings on their crossbows. Gear was checked and
re-checked, and the thanes moved about the throng issuing gruff commands
and reminding the warriors of their oaths.

Steadily the host strode northwards, following the lead of the scouts.
Their route took them into a deep valley, with thick stands of pines to
either side amongst the rocky outcrops. For several miles the gorge cut
through the mountains, its walls becoming ever more heavily wooded.

The column was called to battle order as it neared its quarry, the king
and his veterans taking their position in the middle of the host while
crossbow-armed dwarfs and more lightly armoured troops made their way
forwards. The fire-throwers were sent out to guard the flanks, while the
engineers began preparing their machines to be unlimbered.

Before midday the gorge opened up into a vast craggy bowl circled by
rocks and tall firs. Here the beastmen remained, lazing amongst the
smoking remnants of their fires, the smashed and clawed ruins of their
spoils littering the ground. Broken barrels and splintered staves lay
all about the rocky ground, and upon the pyres could be seen the
charring corpses of dwarfs, their flesh ripped and hacked from the
bodies.

At the sight of this a deep growling emanated from the throng, and there
was much cursing.

A few of the more conscious beastmen saw the army issuing from the gorge
and ran about the debris-strewn camp howling and shouting. One picked up
a horn from the ground and brought it to up its lips.

Before a note could be sounded, the horned thing collapsed to the ground
with a black-shafted arrow in its neck. The dwarfs turned in amazement
to see Malekith plucking another arrow from his quiver.

Though the hornblower had been silenced, the beastmen were quickly
rousing and rising to their feet, snatching up crude clubs, jagged
blades and roughly hewn wooden shields. Their appearance and variety
defied description, for each was subtly different from the next.

Many had goat-like heads and legs, with long spiralling horns of an
antelope, or curling tusks jutting from their mouths. Others were
reminiscent of rams, or scorpions, or serpents. Shapeless things with
many limbs and eyes lumbered towards the dwarfs, their mewling cries and
senseless roars echoing around the rocky basin.

As the alarm was taken up there came a great cacophony of grunts and
shrieks, baying and barking. As well as this clamour, the wind also
brought the stench of the camp to Malekith. He almost retched as his
senses were overwhelmed with the stink of carrion, rotted blood and
dung. His fellow elves coughed and spluttered, and even the dwarfs
wrinkled their noses and covered their faces with gauntleted hands.

In size as well as in shape, no two beastmen were alike, for some were
in height like the dwarfs, though less broad, with thin, twisted faces
and stubby horns. Most seemed of a similar size to the elves, though
wider of shoulder and larger of limb. Several were much taller, perhaps
twice Malekith’s height, with bull heads, bloodstained fangs and huge
chests thick with muscle.

Some were almost hairless, others albino or with brightly patterned
skins; more still were covered in patches of thick fur of reds, browns
and black, or were striped like tigers or spotted as leopards. Long
beards trailed from bulging chins, and eyes of black, red and green
regarded the approaching dwarfs with a mixture of hatred and fear.

Hooting and wailing drowned out the tramp of dwarfish iron-shod boots as
the beastmen gathered into groups about their leaders and came forwards
to meet the assault.

As they marched on, the dwarf column spread into a line as space
permitted, the missile regiments to the flanks, the more solid
clansdwarfs holding the centre. The war machines were dismounted from
their carts upon hillocks and rises so that they could oversee the whole
battlefield, and as Malekith suspected would happen, all of this was
done with few shouted commands, only the occasional beating of a drum or
short horn blast. Now that battle was almost upon them, the dwarfs were
much more cohesive in their movements, though they still lacked the
precise drill and organisation of the Naggarothi.

Malekith positioned himself and his warriors close to the High King’s
body­guard, in the hope that Snorri would have a full view of their
excellence in battle even once the fighting had commenced. Lacking the
numbers for a properly organised line, Malekith arranged his warriors in
a single block of bows and spears, the better-armoured warriors to the
fore, the archers ready to fire past them at approaching enemies. He
stood at the centre of the front rank, Alandrian beside him.

‘I see little challenge here,’ said the prince. ‘A disorderly mob
against so many engines and bows will perish without a fight.’

‘A shame indeed, highness,’ said Alandrian. Like the rest of the
company, the captain bore a spear and tall shield. His helm covered most
of his face, so that only his mouth was visible and Malekith could not
see his lieutenant’s expression. Alandrian’s tone had been less than
enthusiastic.

‘I think perhaps you have spent too much time talking and not enough
with a blade in your hand,’ the prince said sharply.

Alandrian turned, his mouth pursed with anger.

‘I am Naggarothi, highness,’ the captain declared. ‘Warrior-born and
fearless. Do not mistake my desire for peace for cowardice.’

Malekith smiled to himself at the venom in Alandrian’s retort and was
content that his captain would be as fierce a fighter as he had been in
the many long years of their acquaintance.

There was still some considerable distance between the beasts and the
dwarfs when the first of the war machines loosed its deadly load. A
cluster of rocks each as large as a dwarf’s head sailed through the air,
and then fell amongst the mustering beastmen, crushing skulls and
snapping bones.

A great jeer rose up from the dwarfs at the striking of this first blow,
which was to be followed by many more as boulders and bolts began to
rain down upon the filthy encampment.

Spurred into decisive action, the Chaotic horde ran forwards, the
fastest outpacing the slowest so that there was no line or formation but
simply separate groups hurtling towards the dwarfs. Malekith sighed,
knowing that even against the dwarfs such a lack of tactics would see
the beastmen slain or hurled back before a sword was swung or spear was
thrust.

As rocks and bolts continued to take their toll, joined now by crossbow
quarrels, and arrows from the elves, Malekith saw that his prediction
would be correct. In face of such devastating volleys the beastmen could
not maintain any momentum and their charge petered out as they turned
away, and in small groups fled from the death unleashed upon them.

A few of the least intelligent creatures continued their attack and the
dwarfs concentrated their missiles upon them. Shambling, slithering
monstrosities impervious to fear or pain lumbered forwards driven by the
instinct to slay, but were eventually cut down as dozens of rocks and
arrows pounded and pierced their scaled and leathery bodies.

Malekith returned his bow to its quiver with another sigh and glanced
over at Snorri, wondering if the king would sally forth to hunt down the
survivors of the barrage. Malekith was sorely tempted to lead his
warriors on into the enemy to display their brilliance at arms, but
sudden concern stayed his command.

The High King’s attention was focused upon the unfolding scene ahead,
but now and then he glanced to his left or right, and at one point
turned fully around to stare back towards the valley walls behind the
host. Some of the other dwarfs were doing likewise, and Malekith felt a
tingle of apprehension.

In the Annulii Mountains of his homeland, the prince knew every sound
and scent, but here his senses were unaccustomed to the particular
hissing of the wind in the trees, the rattle of rocks and the smell of
the air. For the dwarfs, though, this was their home and Malekith knew
that their instincts here would be as keen as his were in Nagarythe.
Their sudden interest in the surroundings gave Malekith a sensation he
had not felt since the daemons had been defeated: worry.

It came to him all at once just how little he knew about this place, and
how ignorant he was of its dangers and denizens. He was just mastering
his concern when there came a sound that turned his worry to an emotion
he had not felt in over three hundred years: apprehension.

It was a horn blast, flat and short. It was not the sound itself that
caused Malekith such anxiety, but the direction from which it came. It
resonated down the valley, but the prince’s sharp hearing told him that
it had originated in the trees that covered the eastern wall of the
valley, behind the host.

A moment later it sounded again and this time there were answers; other
atonal blasts and harsh cries were carried on the wind. Hearing this,
the beastmen in the rocky hollow slowed in their flight, then turned and
started to come back towards the dwarfs.

Now Malekith saw fully the discipline and cohesiveness of the dwarf
army. Snorri barked out orders and received acknowledging shouts from
his thanes. The engines and crossbow regiments began to pour their shot
into the beastmen again, while the king’s bodyguard and nearly
two-thirds of the throng turned about and began to array themselves for
battle at the valley mouth.

Uncertain what plan was being enacted, Malekith split his company,
sending the archers forwards to support the attack against the
encampment and turning his spears to face this new threat.

Malekith’s mind was racing. How was it that they had become so easily
trapped? Had the dwarf scouts not wit or skill enough to detect the
ambushers?

Then a darker thought entered the prince’s mind; perhaps some greater
intelligence, some malign intellect, guided their foes.

There was little time to ponder such questions, for amongst the shouts
and the thunder of war machines, there came a new sound. Malekith felt
it through the soles of his boots before he could hear it. A trembling
of the ground, like the distant rumbling of a waterfall.

He could see nothing amongst the closely growing pines, but the growing
thunder in the ground intensified and with a rising sense of unease
Malekith realised that it was the pounding of thousands of feet.

A blur of darkness in the air caught his attention and he looked up to
see a boulder hurtling through the skies towards the dwarfen line.
Armour screeched and bones snapped beneath its weight as the stone
crashed into the dwarfs, bouncing and rolling through their ranks.

At first Malekith thought that some strange dwarf machine or other had
malfunctioned, or that the beastmen had mastered the use of catapults as
he had seen orcs employ such crude engines. More movement drew
Malekith’s eye up the valley’s eastern side and he spied a large figure.
It was easily ten times the height of an elf. It was naked but for
misshapen rags of tattered hide and bloody sheepskins.

As Malekith watched, the giant stooped and picked up another rock, then
hurled the projectile far out over the trees into the army beneath.

From the western woods poured the beastmen, hundreds of them swarming
and shouting as they burst from the trees hurling stones and other
improvised missiles. They erupted from the cover of the forest close to
where a battery of engines had been positioned, and the crews abandoned
their machines and formed up to defend themselves. Against such numbers
their resistance was brief, and Malekith watched as the bestial horde
continued down the hillside towards the dwarf line.

The dwarfs moved to counter this attack, the clan warriors locking their
shields together as they advanced to meet the threat. As the distance
was closed, the dwarfs hurled throwing axes into their enemies, and in
return unwieldy javelins were launched into their armoured ranks.
Beastmen fell by the score during this exchange, but only here and there
did the sturdy armour of the dwarfs fail.

On and on came the tide of twisted evil, a seemingly unending stream of
bloated, frothing beasts and animalistic, howling warriors.

With a shattering clash the charging beastmen met the defiant dwarf line
and vicious fighting broke out across the breadth of the army. Though
the dwarfs held firm and hacked down their foes with relentless
ferocity, still more came, savage and shrieking with the joy of slaying.
The beastmen spread out as more and more clambered over the dead to
reach the dwarfs, and Snorri sent forwards more of his followers to
extend the flanks of his force lest the bestial deluge of vileness
surround his army.

While his attention was drawn to the ongoing battle to his left,
Malekith recalled that the first horn had sounded from the east, to his
right.

He looked over towards Snorri and saw that the High King was deep in
consultation with his thanes. Seeing that all the efforts of the dwarfs
were directed to the west, Malekith decided the best way to draw
attention to the danger from the east was through action.

‘Naggarothi, with me!’ he shouted, drawing his sword. As one the
spearmen raised their shields with an affirmative shout. ‘Advance!’

Malekith led his soldiers forwards, towards the spine of the
mountainside where the valley met the deep crater of the basin. At
another command, they broke into a trot, jogging along swiftly to swing
wide of the dwarfs’ flank. Dwarfish shouts of anger followed them, but
Malekith ignored the noise, judging rightly that the dwarfs mistakenly
thought the elves were fleeing.

Snarling and howls now sounded from the woods, and Malekith called his
troops to a halt, remembering Aernuis’s first encounter with goblins.

Sure enough, dozens of wolves sped from the treeline, carrying goblins
upon their backs. The wolves were larger than any normal beast, with
foaming maws, dark fur and red eyes. The goblins carried spears and
small round shields. From under fur-trimmed helmets, their pinched green
faces were split by vicious snarls and hungry leers. Many carried short
bows and they loosed off erratic shots as they closed in.

The Naggarothi raised their shields to head height as one, and the small
arrows clattered harmlessly aside, lacking the punch of a true elven
bow. Still, the goblins made up for in numbers what they lacked in
quality and more arrows rained down in wavering and corkscrewing
fashion, many falling short. Even as their comrades closed, the goblins
paid no heed to the risk of hitting their own kind and continued to
shower the elves to little effect.

‘Spears to guard!’ shouted Malekith.

The Naggarothi lowered their shields just as the first of the wolves
raced forwards and leapt to the attack, to be skewered on a spear point,
its diminutive rider shrieking as it leapt clear. Another elf thrust
forwards his spear, lancing its tip through the goblin’s throat. With a
twist, the warrior pulled his weapon free and returned to the guard
position.

More of the wolves tried a direct attack, seeking to jump amongst the
elves to wreak havoc, yet the wall of spears held firm and they and
their riders suffered the same fate as the first.

A second wave attacked more cautiously, turning at the last moment to
ride in front of the regiment hacking at spear tips, but the Naggarothi
pressed forwards a few paces and caught them unexpectedly, slaying many
on the points of their spears.

The wolf riders ran back and forth, darting in to attack when they
thought the elves’ guard was down, but not a single greenskin nor their
lupine mounts landed a wound upon the Naggarothi. For all that their
attack did no direct harm, Malekith could see more goblins leaving the
woods on foot, and saw that his small company would quickly become
encircled.

With a snarl, he reached out to the winds of magic and drew power into
himself. He felt it writhing within him, crawling under his skin,
pouring through his veins. With a chant to focus the unwieldy energies,
the prince moulded the coiling magic with his mind.

A golden spear dripping with sparks formed in his left hand, and with a
curse upon his lips Malekith hurled the spell at the wolves. The magical
spear tore straight through three of the creatures and exploded with a
shower of yellow flame. Panicked, the wolves yapped and yelped and
turned heel, urged to flee even faster by their cowardly riders.

None too soon, Malekith reorganised his troops to face the goblins now
marching out of the woods. The greenskins attempted to circle around the
elves, jabbing their weapons towards them and screaming jibes and curses
in their foul tongue.

The Naggarothi turned and expanded their formation with ease, spreading
out into a semi-circle that presented no flank to the enemy, their backs
secured by the outcrop of rock at the valley’s entrance. Hissing and
spitting, the goblins did not attack at once, and they eyed their
slaughtered kin and the dead wolves, the corpses of which lay in heaps
about the elven regiment.

‘I think they have reconsidered their position,’ laughed Alandrian from
beside Malekith.

The prince’s eyes did not leave the goblins, as more of their number
flowed from the woods. Soon there were several hundred of the spiteful
little creatures, shouting and taunting, but approaching no closer than
a stone’s throw.

Something immense crashed through the trees behind the goblins, smashing
through branches and splintering trunks.

With a bellow the giant strode out into the valley, having evidently
grown bored of hurling rocks from above. In its right hand it held a
tree limb studded with shards of broken armour, blades of axes and
swords, and bent pieces of shield. Buoyed by their gigantic companion,
the goblins began to run further forwards, beating their weapons upon
their wooden shields and shouting in their shrill voices.

Above the cries and the clamour of battle, Malekith heard a sudden
whistling of air. Turning, he saw a great metal shaft arcing over the
dwarfen army, from the direction of Wolfspear. The engine’s crews had
turned the gigantic bolt thrower about upon its hillock in the midst of
the dwarf army, much to Malekith’s relief.

He followed the trajectory of the massive bolt until it struck the giant
full in the chest, smashing through its monstrous breastbone, heart and
spine. With an astonished gurgle, the giant lurched forwards two steps
and then crashed to the ground, flattening a dozen goblins beneath its
bulk. Wails of dismay flooded up from the horrified greenskins, who
looked at each other in their panic.

‘Kill them,’ snarled Malekith, breaking into a run.

Needing no further encouragement, the Naggarothi surged forwards,
running hard and fast towards the foe.

Like some small animal frozen with terror as the hawk swoops down, the
goblins remained unmoving for several heartbeats. With pitiful shrieks
they turned to run as the elves came within a few dozen strides, heading
for the safety of the woods.

For all their fright-driven speed, the goblins’ small legs carried them
across the ground much more slowly than the loping run of the elves, and
Malekith overtook the slowest of the greenskins with ease. Striking out
to right and left, his sword cleaved through heads and spines. Then the
Naggarothi caught up with the bulk of the fleeing rabble, and the
butchery began.

Malekith felt the Khaine-fever taking over as he slashed and cut,
­caring not for the acrid blood that spattered on his lips nor the gore
splashed across his golden armour.

His warriors were likewise filled with battle-lust, having spent many
long days in the hold of the dwarfs without vent for their energy. Heads
and limbs were scattered in the orgy of death, and with rage fuelling
their steps the elves chased down the goblins and killed every last one
of them.

Only when nothing but entrails and bloodied remains were left did they
stop, panting hard not from exhaustion but excitement.

Finally tasting the bitter filth upon his face, Malekith wiped the blood
clear of his mouth and looked around. The dwarfs were still fighting
hard with the beastmen, and were falling back towards the valley basin,
drawing them further from the elves.

Malekith did not know if there were more goblins in the woods, or any
other loathsome creature for that matter, and turned the company around
to head back to the main battle. From this direction they would drive
into the rear of the bestial horde.

Malekith could see the four standards of Snorri Whitebeard above the
melee, and chose a line of attack that would see the elves cut through
the Chaotic filth to meet up with the High King in the melee.

Now calmed by the bloodletting of the goblins, the Naggarothi advanced
steadily, cutting down the beastmen in their path. The largest of the
beasts were now fighting hard at the front, leaving the smallest and
most cowardly to face the attack of the elves. Most ran before they
could be hewed down, though some did not see their peril until it was
too late. Their lives ended spitted upon spear shaft or cleaved in twain
by Avanuir.

As he cut his way through the beastmen, something disturbed Malekith’s
concentration. There was shifting in the magic around him. It was dark
and heavy and hugged the ground, but something was causing it to
sluggishly swirl into the air.

Stopping for a moment and waving his warriors to advance further, the
prince focussed his attention on the mystical energy. It was definitely
being drawn somewhere else. Following its flow, he looked out over the
sprawling battle. Like an eagle seeking its prey, Malekith allowed the
magic to guide his eyes, until his gaze alighted upon a peculiar
beastman.

Its skin was a pale green, blotched with strange moss-like growths
amongst mangy patches of fur, and it wore a tattered cloak of what
looked like skin. It was hunched over and a grasping hand protruded from
its back. Its horned head was covered with a thick hood of rough,
mucus-encrusted cloth. In its gnarled, clawed grip the thing held a long
piece of wood to which were bound shards of evilly glowing stone. They
scorched into Malekith’s magical sense, burning with dark magic.

The shaman lifted its staff and pointed the end towards the elves. Too
late, Malekith realised what was happening.

Exerting his will, Malekith tried to seize back the magical power being
leeched by the shaman, but he could not stop the vile spell. A thick
black cloud of flies erupted from that staff, its buzzing deafening,
blotting out all other sound. The swarm lifted above the beastmen and
flew straight for the Naggarothi, but it was not the sight of the
droning cloud that so disturbed Malekith. He could sense the dark
energies writhing within the living fog; like the stench of rot or
soured milk the magic flooded Malekith’s unearthly senses.

The fly cloud descended on the elves with an ear-splitting hum. Where
each fly landed, it brought decay. Armour began to spot with rust, and
wooden spear shafts grew weak with mildew. Malekith saw an elf flailing
at the swarm with his shield, but within moments it had split and
disintegrated into orange dust. Plates of armour cracked, leather split
and frayed, and scale links turned to a rusted mass.

Suddenly, like a great inhalation, the magic disappeared. Like a
cleansing wind blowing through thick smoke, something new disturbed the
mystical flow of energy, dissipating it. The swarm dissolved in the air,
leaving the Naggarothi swinging rusted gauntlets and broken spear staves
into thin air. The breeze became stronger and then grew into a consuming
immaterial whirlwind, like a great gulf that had opened up under the sea
to swallow all the waters.

A blazing light caught the attention of the prince, and over the bobbing
heads of the embattled beastmen he could just about see a dwarf wielding
a metallic globe, stood beside the king. White light poured from runes
engraved into the strange sphere, and it was to this that the magical
winds were being drawn.

A counter-current formed in the ethereal energy of the magical winds as
the shaman tried to fight the power of the dwarfen globe. Something went
wrong, though. Malekith could feel the magic becoming barbed and
dangerous, like a mellow beast suddenly enraged and revealed to have
razor-sharp fangs.

For a moment, Malekith fancied that he saw something on the edge of his
vision, a shadow of a shadow not unlike some great daemon in form. It
appeared above the shaman and seemed to reach into the beastman with an
indistinct hand. Then it was gone, and Malekith fancied that perhaps he
had simply imagined it.

With a detonation of magical energy that shredded beastmen and dwarfs
for many yards in every direction, the shaman exploded. The ground
cracked beneath its falling corpse and the air churned with invisible
force. Malekith felt the expanding magical field buffet him as surely as
any storm or wave, but the prince gritted his teeth and allowed its
gnawing energies to pass him by.

Though Malekith’s magical blade and Vaul-forged armour were untouched by
the horrifying spell, his warriors were now in poor shape. Some were
stuck in their rust-seized armour and rolled upon the ground trying to
free themselves; many were pocked with boils and lesions left by the
horrific biting of the daemon-flies. Most were now weaponless, amongst
them Alandrian, and Malekith could see no option but to order a retreat,
much as it bit deeply at his pride to do so. Before he had a chance to
issue the command, a new horror emerged for them to face.

There was a rumbling of thunder overhead and storm clouds gathered with
unnatural speed above the valley. Lightning crackled across the dark
canopy and shot to the earth in blinding bolts. A wind from nowhere
began to howl down the gorge, bending the trees and whipping grit and
droplets of blood into the air.

Pines were sent hurtling in every direction as a terrifying monster
erupted from the woods to the east. In form it was not unlike a dragon,
though perhaps a little lesser in size, with the scaled legs, body and
tail of such a creature. Its hide was a deep crimson, but its talons
were of a black as dark as coal. The gigantic centaur-like monster had a
red-skinned torso and a pair of arms where the dragon’s neck and head
would have been. Its head sat upon broad shoulders that were encased in
plates of studded armour. Two serrated horns coiled out of its skull and
its mouth was little more than a fang-filled slit.

It wielded a pair of identical swords, larger than anything Malekith had
ever seen, but true-forged blades rather than the improvised weapons of
the beastmen. Energy flickered and crawled upon those cruel swords,
whose hilts and crossguards were fashioned from fused spines and whose
pommels were made from real skulls. The gigantic beast’s eyes were wide
and filled with the energy of the storm.

‘Shaggoth!’ cried one of Malekith’s soldiers, and the prince knew it to
be true.

The oldest legends of the dragons spoke of such creatures, but Malekith
had considered them to be myths from before the rise of the elves;
before even the coming of the Old Ones and the banishment of the elven
gods. Cousins to the dragons who had ruled the world before the coming
of the gods, the shaggoths had bartered their souls to Chaos long before
the Dark Gods had arisen to claim this world. If the dragons were to be
believed, they had warred with the shaggoths for an eternity until
finally the dragons had triumphed and driven their foes into hiding.

With the coming of Chaos, Malekith guessed, the shaggoths had been
roused from their lairs, and now one of the titanic creatures stared
down at Malekith with death-filled eyes. Lightning arced down from the
storm clouds above, striking the shaggoth full on the chest. The
creature was invigorated rather than harmed, as coruscating energy
rippled across its gnarled skin.

‘Our allies watch!’ cried Malekith to his elves as those that could move
backed away in terror from the apparition. ‘Do not shame yourselves!
Show no fear! Strike without hesitation! Slay in the name of Nagarythe!’

With lightning still flickering across its flesh, the shaggoth lunged
forwards and snatched up one of the Naggarothi in a foreclaw,
splintering rusted armour and crushing bones and organs. A sweep of a
sword carved through three more warriors, sending their remains spinning
through the air. With Malekith’s command still ringing in their ears,
the Naggarothi closed ranks and attacked, but even those whose weapons
had not been undone by the shaman’s curse could find no weakness in the
scales and hide of the beast.

With a deafening roar, the shaggoth cast the remains of the unfortunate
Naggarothi in its claws, so that he smashed back into the company,
toppling several more elves. Its swords blazing with energy, the
prehistoric monster hacked and chopped with savage glee, slicing great
bloody wounds into the regiment.

Summoning what little magical power remained after the dwarfs’
counterspell, Malekith charged in to the attack, Avanuir trailing blue
flames as he swept the magical sword towards the beast’s underbelly.

The creature reared with an angry bellow and Malekith was forced to leap
backwards to avoid a raking claw aimed for his throat. Ducking beneath
the swipe of a monstrous sword, Malekith took hold of Avanuir in both
hands and hacked at the beast’s legs, though even the enchanted blade of
Nagarythe bit only lightly into the armoured skin of the terror.

Alerted by his preternatural senses, Malekith tried to dodge another
swinging blade, but was caught on the shoulder by the shaggoth’s fist
and sent wheeling through the air. Landing heavily, the wind knocked
from him, Malekith struggled to regain his feet. Pouncing with unlikely
speed, the shaggoth grasped Malekith in one of its foreclaws and
wrenched the prince aloft. Its right arm swung back ready for the death
blow, energy arcing from the blade it held.

With a wordless shout, Malekith drove Avanuir deep into the flesh of the
creature’s foreleg, causing it to spasm and drop him to the ground.
Crawling forwards, Malekith ducked beneath the creature’s bulky body and
then stood, raking the tip of Avanuir along the softer skin of its
underside. Thick, dark blood dripped from the wound and the shaggoth
tried to back away so that Malekith would not be hidden by its own body.
The prince rolled between its thrashing legs, avoiding an immense sword
that dug a great trench in the earth where he had been stood, and drove
Avanuir into the base of the shaggoth’s tail.

Such wounds would have been grievous against any other foe, but the
shaggoth was not even slowed by them. Malekith rolled beneath another
attack and barely brought up Avanuir in time to deflect another blow,
though the parry sent the magical sword spinning from Malekith’s
fingers.

Unarmed, Malekith stood up to face the beast, staring defiantly into its
black eyes. Intelligence flickered in those inky depths, a recognition
of what Malekith was. Other Naggarothi jabbed and hacked at the shaggoth
with swords and knives, trying to draw its attention away from their
prince. It turned quickly and swept them away with a swing of its tail,
hurling them from their feet. Malekith remained where he was stood,
hands balled into fists that glowed with magical flame.

The shaggoth loomed over the lord of Nagarythe, its twin swords held
high above its head. More lightning arced down from the storm clouds it
had summoned, earthing into the tips of those primordial blades. It
crossed its blades in front of it in a mocking salute, its mouth twisted
with an evil smile.

The first strike caught Malekith full in the chest, lifting him from his
feet with an explosion of electricity. Sparks of energy flew from the
prince’s magical armour as he sailed a dozen feet into the air and then
crashed down onto the rocky ground. Pain lanced along his spine and his
ribs felt ­shattered, but Malekith’s pride would not let him die on his
back.

With a grunt, he pushed himself to his feet, his injuries sending spasms
of agony through his body. The prince turned to face the shaggoth once
more.

‘I am Aenarion’s son.’ Malekith spat blood onto the ground at the
­shaggoth’s feet. ‘My father slew the four greatest daemons that the
Dark Gods could send. Armies were laid low by his blade. The world
trembled at his tread. All will remember me as they remember him.’

The shaggoth brought down its leftmost blade and Malekith raised his arm
to protect himself, the ensorcelled gold of his armour screeching and
blazing with light at the impact. The shaggoth’s smile died, and its
brow furrowed in frustration and anger. Another blow that would have
felled trees and shattered stone sent Malekith skidding backwards, his
arm broken, a slash across his face.

Spitting more blood, Malekith stood again.

‘Your time is long past,’ Malekith taunted the beast. ‘Our time is now.
Go back to your dark hole and pray to your filthy gods that we do not
hunt you down.’

With a roar of anger, the shaggoth lashed out wildly, allowing Malekith
to easily avoid the blow. Malekith ducked beneath the sword, and then
leapt high, fuelled by anger and magic, his blazing fists smashing the
­shaggoth across the face. Reeling from the blow, the shaggoth took
several steps back, shaking its head.

Landing lightly, Malekith readied himself to strike again when the
­shaggoth let out a great howl of pain. It whipped around, and the
prince saw that its tail had been half-severed. There was a flash of
light from some source obscured by its gigantic body, and a clawed
foreleg whirled into the air in a fountain of thick gore.

Ducking so that he could see beneath the creature’s heaving gut,
Malekith saw the dwarf High King, blazing rune axe in hand. Each blow
cut through flesh and bone without pause, sending the shaggoth
staggering from side to side.

Determined that he would not be upstaged by Snorri, Malekith leapt to
where Avanuir had fallen and snatched up his blade. Though his left arm
was shattered and his insides burned from injuries that could not be
seen, Malekith sprinted forwards and leapt upon the shaggoth’s back. As
it bucked and turned, Malekith ran up the bony crests along its spine.
Spitting through gritted teeth from the pain, the prince grabbed one of
the shaggoth’s curling horns with his crippled left hand and planted a
foot upon its shoulder.

With a triumphant cry, he brought down Avanuir across its neck, chopping
deep into the thickly muscled flesh. Thrice more Avanuir bit, until the
beast shuddered and spasmed and then collapsed to the ground. With a
final effort, Malekith sawed the head free and tossed it to the ground
beside Snorri, who was awash head to foot with the entrails and sinews
of the monster. The beast’s remains toppled to the ground, tossing
Malekith unceremoniously into the blood-slicked mud next to Snorri.

The High King looked down at Malekith, his eyes glittering behind the
visor of his helm. He then gave the curious thumb-up signal the prince
had seen the dwarfs use as a sign of approval.

‘We’ll share this one, I think,’ Malekith said magnanimously.

Only then, with his point proven, did Malekith allow himself to pass
out.
