
TWENTY-TWO


The Wheels of Power Turn

As Morathi had predicted, there was much rejoicing when news of
Malekith’s victory spread across Ulthuan. Once Anlec was firmly under
his control the prince rode to Galthyr to lift the siege there. The
Naggarothi commanders threw themselves on Malekith’s mercy and swore new
oaths of loyalty to the prince. By secret command from Morathi, many of
the cultists vanished into the wilds and their leaders hid themselves
amongst the folk of Nagarythe. Prince Malekith sent word to the other
rulers of Ulthuan that some measure of order had been restored, and
feasts of celebration were held across the isle.

Malekith escorted Morathi south to Tor Anroc, accompanied by the three
Sapherian mages Thyriol, Merneir and Eltreneth to guard against any
sorcery from the seeress. With a great show of humility, Malekith went
incognito through the towns and villages, sparing his mother the spite
of the elves she had all but enslaved.

Many days after leaving Anlec they came to the citadel of the Phoenix
King, now an immense palace with a hundred halls and fifty spiralling
towers. Swathed in black cloaks, they rode through the gate and were met
by Palthrain. No words were said for all had been pre-arranged. The
chamberlain ushered the small group through the long corridors and
vaulted galleries to the heart of the palace, to the throne room of Bel
Shanaar.

The floor was paved with white gold and the walls hung with six hundred
tapestries picturing landscapes from the wide realm of the elves.
Magical dwarf-forged lanterns bathed all in a pearlescent glow as
Malekith pulled back his hood. The prince and his companions strode
along the hall to stand before Bel Shanaar, who was sat upon his throne
deep in thought. Imrik was there, as were Bathinair, Elodhir, Finudel
and Charill.

‘My king and princes,’ said Malekith. ‘Today is a portentous occasion,
for as I vowed, I bring before you the Witch Queen of Nagarythe, my
mother, Morathi.’

Morathi cast off her cloak and stood before her judges. She was dressed
in a flowing blue gown, her hair bound up with shining sapphires, her
eyelids painted with azure powder. She appeared every inch the defeated
queen, dejected but unrepentant.

‘You stand before us accused of raising war against the office of the
Phoenix King and the realms of the princes of Ulthuan,’ Bel Shanaar
said.

‘It was not I that launched attacks against the border of Nagarythe,’
Morathi replied calmly. Her gaze met the eyes of the princes in turn.
‘It was not the Naggarothi who sought battle with the other kingdoms.’

‘You would portray yourself as the victim?’ laughed Finudel. ‘To us?’

‘No ruler of Nagarythe is a victim,’ replied Morathi.

‘Do you deny that the cults of excess and luxury that blight our realm
owe their loyalty to you?’ said Bel Shanaar.

‘They owe their loyalty to the cytharai,’ said Morathi. ‘You can no more
prosecute me for the existence of the cults than you can impeach
yourself for assuming the mantle of Asuryan’s chosen.’

‘Will you at least admit to thoughts of treason?’ said Elodhir. ‘Did you
not plot against my father and seek to undermine him?’

‘I hold no position in higher regard than that of the Phoenix King,’
Morathi said, her eyes fixed upon Bel Shanaar. ‘I spoke my mind at the
First Council and others chose to ignore my wisdom. My loyalty is to
Ulthuan and the prosperity and strength of her people. I do not change
my opinions at a whim and my reservations have not been allayed.’

‘She is a viper,’ snarled Imrik. ‘She cannot be allowed to live.’

Morathi laughed, a scornful sound that reverberated menacingly around
the hall.

‘Who wishes to be known as the elf who slew Aenarion’s queen?’ the
seeress said. ‘Which of the mighty princes gathered here would claim
that accolade?’

‘I will,’ said Imrik, his hand straying to the silver hilt of the sword
at his waist.

‘I cannot condone this,’ said Malekith, stepping protectively in front
of his mother.

‘You swore to me in this very chamber that you would be ready for such
an end,’ said Bel Shanaar. ‘Do you now renege on your oath?’

‘No more than I renege on the oath that I would show mercy to all those
who asked for it,’ said Malekith. ‘My mother need not die. Her blood
would serve no purpose but to sate the Caledorian’s vengeful thirst.’

‘It is justice, not revenge,’ said Imrik. ‘Blood for blood.’

‘If she lives, she is a threat,’ said Finudel. ‘She cannot be trusted.’

‘I cannot decide this,’ said Malekith, addressing the princes. He then
turned his eyes upon the Phoenix King. ‘I will not decide this. Let Bel
Shanaar decide. The will of the Phoenix King is stronger than the oath
of a prince. Is the word of the son of Aenarion to be as nothing, or is
there yet nobility enough in the princes of Ulthuan to show compassion
and forgiveness?’

Bel Shanaar gave Malekith a sour look, knowing that all that had passed
here would be reported by means both open and secret to the people of
Ulthuan. Malekith tested his judgement, and there was no course of
action that would not damage his reputation with those who wanted to see
weakness.

‘Morathi cannot go unpunished for her crimes,’ Bel Shanaar said slowly.
‘There is no place to which I can exile her, for she would return more
bitter and ambitious than before. As she enslaved others, so shall she
forfeit her freedom. She shall stay in rooms within this palace, under
guard night and day. None shall see her save with my permission.’

The Phoenix King stood and glared at the sorceress.

‘Know this, Morathi,’ said Bel Shanaar. ‘The sentence of death is not
wholly commuted. You live by my will. If ever you cross me or seek to
harm my rule, you will be slain, without trial or representation. Your
word is of no value and so I hold your life hostage to your good
behaviour. Accept these terms or accept your death.’

Morathi looked at the gathered princes and saw nothing but hatred in
their faces, save for Malekith’s which was expressionless. They were
like wolves that had cornered a wounded lion; knowing that they should
slay their prey while they could, yet still fearful that there was fight
left yet in their enemy.

‘Your demands are not unreasonable, Bel Shanaar of Tiranoc,’ she said
eventually. ‘I consent to be your prisoner.’

With Morathi in custody, Malekith returned to Anlec, to secure his lands
against the cultists that still held sway over some parts of the
kingdom. On the surface, a measure of order was restored, though in
truth the agents of Anlec were now spread wider and further than ever
before. Over the passing years a sense of security grew on Ulthuan once
again; but it was a false sense, fostered by the machinations of
Malekith.

In ones and twos the cultists began to gather again, now more careful
than ever. Their leaders sent messages to each other by their secret
ways, and the heads of the dark priesthoods emerged in new guises in
Anlec. As councillors and advisors, Malekith masked these magisters
within his court, holding over them the threat of exposure to ensure
their loyalty to him.

For two decades relative peace prevailed. Often Malekith travelled to
Tor Anroc to consult with Bel Shanaar, and ever the prince of Nagarythe
would decry his own failure to capture all of those who had been
henchmen to his mother. He offered what help he could to the other
kingdoms, and spent as much time in the palaces of his fellow princes as
he did in Anlec, fostering harmony and friendship.

On these travels he would also visit his mother, supposedly to check on
her wellbeing and to accept a repentance that was never offered. On the
twentieth anniversary of his mother’s imprisonment, Malekith rode alone
to Tor Anroc and was granted a private meeting with his mother by the
Phoenix King. They were brought together in the majestic gardens at the
centre of the palace of Tor Anroc. High hedges hid them from view as
they walked across the plush green lawns, their soft words masked by the
splashing of fifty fountains.

‘How is the hospitality of Bel Shanaar?’ asked Malekith as the pair
walked arm-in-arm down an avenue of cherry trees laden with blossom.

‘I endure what I must,’ replied Morathi.

She led Malekith to a bench of ornately carved pale wood and they sat
beside each other; the mother’s hand on the son’s knee, the son’s hand
on the mother’s shoulder. They sat in silence for a while, both with
their faces turned to the bright sky, the sun bathing their skin with
her warmth. It was Malekith who first broke the peace.

‘All is well in Anlec also,’ he said. ‘My mercy is now legendary. The
cytharai worshippers captured by the princes demand that they receive
the same opportunity for repentance as you were granted. They come to
Anlec and I hear their confessions and apologies.’

‘How many hide beneath your shadow?’ asked Morathi.

‘Many thousands, all utterly loyal to me,’ said the prince with a smile.

‘So you stand ready to move soon?’ asked the seeress.

‘Not yet,’ said Malekith, his smile fading. ‘Imrik yet resists me in the
court of the Phoenix King.’

‘Imrik will never be won over,’ said Morathi. ‘Not only is he jealous,
he is shrewd. He guesses our intent, but cannot prove any wrongdoing.’

‘Nagarythe also is not yet united,’ said Malekith with a solemn shake of
his head.

‘How so?’ asked Morathi.

‘There are some princes and nobles who are still fearful of my power,’
said Malekith. ‘Eoloran of the Anars is chief amongst them. They wish to
impose self-rule upon their lands in the mountains.’

‘Then Eoloran must be killed,’ said Morathi briskly.

‘I cannot,’ said Malekith. ‘Since your fall, his influence has grown
considerably. Not only do some Naggarothi nobles hold him in high
esteem, some commanders of my armies are under his sway. His lands
overseas are highly profitable. Before I can eliminate him, I need him
to fall from grace.’

Morathi said nothing for a moment, her eyes narrowed in thought.

‘Leave that to me,’ she said. ‘Word will come to you when you can act.’

‘I will not ask what it is that you plan,’ said Malekith. ‘Yet, I do not
understand how it is that you can do anything from here, right under the
eyes and ears of Bel Shanaar.’

‘Trust your mother,’ said Morathi. ‘I have my ways.’

The skies were greying and a cloud obscured the sun. Now in shade, the
pair stood and walked back to the palace, each lost in thought.

As Morathi had predicted, Imrik of Caledor remained steadfastly
suspicious of Malekith’s motives, and shunned the prince’s overtures of
alliance and comradeship. It mattered not though, for through subtle
rumour and devious innuendo, Malekith spread the idea that Imrik was
jealous of Malekith’s popularity. The prince of Nagarythe never spoke
out openly against his opponent, and was always ready to praise Imrik’s
deeds and the calibre of his lineage. He even went so far as to say
that, but for the grace of fate, Imrik’s father would have been Phoenix
King instead of Bel Shanaar. While appearing to be a great compliment,
this had the desired effect on the other princes, who had always
harboured envy of Caledor’s status. Such comments flamed the embers of
rumour that Imrik felt wronged that his father had not been chosen by
the First Council.

One thousand, six hundred and sixty-eight years after first bowing his
knee to Bel Shanaar, Malekith stood ready to make his claim to be
Phoenix King. He needed a catalyst that would act as a spur to action on
the princes. With a carefully orchestrated series of events, Malekith
planned to plunge Ulthuan into brief turmoil once more, so that he could
arise from the flames of conflict and claim his birthright.

It began innocently enough, with news that Malekith’s warriors had
arrested Eoloran Anar, when evidence had come to light that the lord of
House Anar had been corrupted by worshippers of Atharti. Cultists rose
up out of hiding all across Nagarythe and elsewhere in Ulthuan,
supposedly in response to the persecution of a prominent leader. Those
who disbelieved the charge against Eoloran were incensed and they too
spoke out against Malekith.

Confusion reigned in Nagarythe, as claim and counter-claim spread from
town to town, and violence soon followed. None could say for sure who
started the killings, but soon there was bitter fighting between those
loyal to the Anars and the cultists. The other princes looked on in
disbelief as Nagarythe quickly descended into anarchy, where loyalties
were so fractured that families were divided and brother fought against
brother. Amidst the chaos, Malekith appeared to be doing what he could
to restore order, but even his armies seemed fractured by the factions
now contending for power.

The battles that had begun in Nagarythe rapidly spread to other parts of
Ulthuan as the cults came out of the shadows and struck at the princes.
Palaces burned and citizens were killed on the streets as Ulthuan
erupted into bloody infighting. Malekith fought hard to restore his rule
in his own kingdom, but the populace had turned against him, for one
reason or another. He was forced to quit Anlec with a few thousand loyal
troops, and he called upon Bel Shanaar to give him sanctuary.

So it came to pass that in the autumn of that year, Malekith dwelt in
Tor Anroc, and came before Bel Shanaar with a plea. The two were alone
in the Phoenix King’s throne room, for the princes of the court had
returned to their realms to restore what order they could.

‘I would make right my mistake,’ said Malekith, standing before the
Phoenix King, head bowed.

‘What mistake have you made?’ asked Bel Shanaar.

‘In my desire to seek accord with the worshippers of the forbidden gods,
I have allowed them to spread unseen and unchecked,’ Malekith replied.
‘I have allowed myself to be lured into a web of deceit, and was fooled
into believing that House Anar were my enemies. Nagarythe now burns with
hatred, and I am cast out.’

‘What would you have me do?’ said the Phoenix King. ‘I cannot command
your subjects for you.’

‘I would have peace restored, so that bitter enmities might be settled
and wrongs put to right,’ said Malekith, raising his gaze to meet the
inquiring stare of Bel Shanaar.

‘We all wish that, I am sure,’ said Bel Shanaar. ‘However, I cannot
grant it by simply wishing it so. I ask again, what would you have me
do?’

‘We must be united in this,’ said Malekith earnestly. ‘The cults
flourished before because we each acted alone. All of the princes must
speak with one voice. All of the kingdoms must come together to defeat
this dark menace.’

‘How so?’ said Bel Shanaar with a frown.

‘The oaths sworn here many years ago to stand against the cults still
hold true,’ said Malekith. ‘The princes of Ulthuan are still of one
purpose on this matter.’

‘I do not yet see what you ask of me,’ said the Phoenix King.

‘As one army we must fight, under one general,’ said Malekith. He strode
forwards and grasped Bel Shanaar’s hand in both of his, falling to one
knee. ‘As did my father, the army of Ulthuan must be wielded as a single
weapon. Each realm in turn shall be cleansed, and no traitor will go
unpunished this time.’

‘The armies of Ulthuan are not mine alone to command,’ Bel Shanaar said
slowly. ‘I have already pledged the support of Tiranoc, and that has not
changed.’

‘All have pledged support and even now muster their forces for their own
wars,’ Malekith said. ‘Though perhaps our need has grown greater, more
princes than not swore in this chamber to lend their aid.’

‘Yet, it is the very magnitude of the situation that will force them to
have second thoughts,’ Bel Shanaar said. ‘It is one thing to ask them to
send a few thousand troops to quell cultists and malcontents. To
mobilise the militia, to gather their full armies now, on the cusp of
winter, is a much greater undertaking. What they have promised and what
you now ask is not the same thing.’

‘We do not have time to stand idle,’ Malekith growled. ‘Within a season,
civil war could engulf this island. I cannot go to each of the princes
in turn and ask for their renewed pledges. You must call the rulers of
the kingdoms to a council, so that the matter can be settled.’

‘That is within my power, for sure,’ said Bel Shanaar. ‘For some, the
journey to Tor Anroc will take some time, though.’

‘Then call them to the Shrine of Asuryan upon the Isle of Flame,’
suggested Malekith, standing. ‘Thirty days hence, all princes will be
able to attend, in the place where you were accepted by the king of gods
to succeed my father. We shall consult the oracles there, and with their
guidance choose the best course of action for all.’

Bel Shanaar considered this in silence, stroking his chin, as he was
wont to do when deep in thought.

‘So shall it be,’ the Phoenix King said with a solemn nod. ‘In thirty
days we shall convene the council of princes in the Shrine of Asuryan to
determine the destiny of our people.’
