
EIGHTEEN 

A Foe Revealed

The riders of Malekith skirted eastwards before heading south, having
circled around Ealith to come at the fortress from the north. Through
the gloom, the prince could see the castle in the distance, lit by fires
from within so that the walls seemed to glow yellow and red. The keep
was upon a great spur of rock that jutted several hundred feet from the
surrounding grasslands. Laughter and shrill cries could be heard in the
distance and strange shadows danced about the towers.

Upon its highest pinnacle a slender tower reached into the stars, and a
strange green light emanated from its narrow windows. Malekith flinched
as that light flickered for a moment, filled with the unshakeable belief
that he had somehow been seen. Such a thing was impossible though, for
the company were as shadows, swathed as they were by the dark cloaks of
the raven heralds.

A stand of trees obscured Ealith from view, and Malekith was forced to
duck as they rode beneath the boughs into the heart of the copse. Here
was almost utter blackness, save for a few glimmers of starlight that
broke through the almost solid canopy of leaves. The company dismounted,
following the lead of their prince, and walked their steeds further into
the trees.

At their centre there rose a great oak, as mighty as a guard tower, and
Malekith led his horse between two massive roots and to the others he
seemed to disappear. In fact where they thought there was earth and tree
was a large opening, as wide and as high as a city gate, the roots of
the ancient oak forming a twisting archway. Beyond lay the passageway,
walled with grey stone, high enough to mount once more and for three
riders to move abreast. At their head, Malekith drew his sword and its
blue flame glimmered in the darkness like a beacon. Lanterns were passed
down the line and one rider in ten set a glimmering light upon his
saddlebags so that those behind could follow. As will o’ wisps the
company wound along the corridor, plunging deeper and deeper beneath the
earth.

Soon the cut stone of the entrance gave way to bare rock, carefully but
plainly carved by unknown hands. Malekith felt the corridor rising again
and it began to turn to the right in a tightening spiral, and narrowed
to the point that they had to ride single file for a short while. As the
passage levelled out, at the same height as Ealith’s inner walls, it
widened again so that five horses could walk side-by-side. Malekith
raised a hand to halt the column.

Ahead was a wall of bare rock, with no sign of door or gate. Malekith
sat upon his horse in front of the wall and began to chant softly;
ancient spell-words whose meanings were lost on the others. As the
prince spoke, he traced lines through the air with the tip of his
gleaming sword and where it passed a flickering trail of blue fire
lingered, sparkling in the darkness. A rune of fire hung in the air,
growing in intensity. With a final word, Malekith slashed through the
sigil with his blade and a blinding flash filled the corridor. A wide
archway now stood where the wall had been, and beyond lay the courtyard
of Ealith.

‘Ride forth!’ shouted Malekith, heeling his mount into a gallop and
leaping through the archway.

The company broke into a charge, lowering spears and lances as they
thundered from the secret passageway into the castle. Malekith held his
blade at the ready, unconsciously ducking slightly as he passed through
the portal though it was easily high enough for a rider to pass.

The courtyard was thrown into pandemonium. A dozen fires burned in
bronze braziers, giving off an acrid smoke. Vile runes had been daubed
in blood upon the white walls, and clusters of wailing prisoners were
chained to each other in small groups. The cultists were taken
completely unawares; some had been tending the braziers, others
tormenting their captives.

Everywhere cultists leapt up with cries of alarm and shouts of terror as
the knights crashed across the pale flagstones with a wall of lances and
spear tips, striking down all within reach. Malekith bellowed wordlessly
as he cut left and right, despatching a cultist with each blow. The
ringing of steel echoed from the high walls, mixed with war cries and
the screams of the wounded. Malekith singled out a fresh target: an elf
with a pair of serrated daggers in his hands, naked but for a brightly
patterned cloak and kilt, standing menacingly over a cowering elf
maiden. The cultist turned his head as Malekith charged, his face a mask
of dread. The prince did not hesitate, and as he raced past, he slashed
downwards with his blade, catching the cultist a deadly cut across the
neck.

Panting with excitement, Malekith slowed his steed and cast about for
another foe. Dozens of bodies littered the ground, pools of blood
spreading across the white paving. Everywhere enemies were flinging down
their blades and hurling themselves to their knees with shouts of
surrender. A few tried to resist further and were swiftly and
mercilessly overwhelmed by the knights. Malekith jumped from his saddle
and dashed towards the doors of the central citadel, which towered two
hundred feet above the courtyard.

‘Ellyrians, stand guard!’ the prince shouted. ‘All else, follow me!’

The gate had been barred from the inside, but this proved little barrier
to the prince of Nagarythe. His sword blazed with magical energy as he
raised it high. He brought the enchanted blade down and struck a mighty
blow against the door in an explosion of blue fire that shattered the
keep gate into charred planks. Without hesitation, Malekith leapt into
the hallway beyond.

Though mere moments had passed since the attack had begun, the cultists
were recovering quickly. Inside the citadel was a great staircase that
spiralled to the upper levels of the tower. Archways led from the
entrance hall to chambers all around, and scores of cultists poured from
these rooms in a shrieking wave that engulfed Malekith and his company.

Screeching like a wild cat, a female cultist with red body paint and a
shaven head hurled herself at Malekith, spitting and biting. He smashed
the back of his hand across her face and sent her hurtling to the
ground, where she lay unmoving. He barely parried a dagger aimed for his
throat, and cut down the ranting zealot who wielded it. All around the
elves of Malekith fought back to back, as more of their companions tried
to press through the splintered doors to aid them.

As the prince swept out with Avanuir there was another detonation of
magical fire, and a dozen cultists were launched high through the air,
trailing smoke and burnt flesh, to crash against the walls. Malekith
raised up his left hand and blue flame danced from his fingertips. With
howls of pain and fear the cultists hurled themselves away, some
prostrating themselves and gibbering abjectly, others running back
through the doorways to escape the wrath of the prince.

‘Upwards!’ cried Malekith, pointing towards the stairway.

Carathril joined the prince as he leapt up the steps three at a time,
followed by a handful of knights. Others led pursuits into the chambers
below. The next level of the citadel was devoid of life and they
continued upwards until they reached a wide chamber at the top of the
tower. The stairs led them into the middle of a circular room that
filled the space of the tower. Here lanterns blazed with the green
radiance Malekith had seen from outside, and the eerie light showed
scores of elves in horrifying acts of torture and debauchery; a plateau
of vileness that would be forever etched into Malekith’s memory. All
that he heard and all that he had yet seen was not enough to prepare him
for the horrors he witnessed in his own lands.

A high priestess, lithe and athletic, presided over the despicable
ceremony from a dais littered with corpses and blood. Her white robes
were spattered with gore, and a daemonic bronze mask covered her face.
Her eyes glowed with a pale yellow light from within, and her pupils
were tiny points of blackness in pools of luminescence.

In one hand, she held a crooked staff, wrought from bones and iron, and
tipped with a horned skull with three eye sockets. In the other, she
wielded a curved dagger still slick with the blood of many sacrifices.

Malekith charged across the chamber, cutting down any cultist who barred
his path. He was but a few steps from the dais when the priestess thrust
forwards the tip of her staff, and a bolt of pure blackness leapt out
and struck the prince full in the chest. The prince’s heart felt like it
would explode. With a cry of pain torn from his lips, Malekith faltered
and fell to his knees. He was as much shocked as hurt, for he knew of no
wizard who could best the sorcerous abilities granted him by the Circlet
of Iron.

He gazed in amazement at the priestess. She stepped down from the dais
with languid strides and walked slowly towards the injured prince, the
tip of her staff fixed upon him.

‘My foolish child,’ she sneered.

The priestess let the sacrificial dagger slip from her fingers to
clatter in a shower of crimson droplets upon the floor. With her hand
thus freed, she pulled off her mask and tossed it aside. Carathril gave
a yelp of astonishment. Though caked with blood, the priestess’s
lustrous black hair spilled across her bare shoulders. Her face was
pristine, the very image of beauty. In her were aristocratic bearing and
divine magnificence combined.

Carathril felt himself spellbound. Around him, the other knights gazed
dumbly at this apparition of perfection, similarly ensorcelled.

‘Mother?’ whispered Malekith, his sword slipping from his numb fingers.

‘My son,’ she replied with a wicked smile that sent a shiver down
Carathril’s spine; of lust and fear in equal measure. ‘It is very rude
of you to butcher my servants so callously. Your time amongst the
barbarians has robbed you of all manners.’

Malekith said nothing but simply stared up at Morathi, wife of Aenarion,
his mother.

‘You have been weak, Malekith, and I have been forced to rule in your
stead,’ she said. ‘You trot across the world at the bidding of Bel
Shanaar, ever eager to risk your life for him, while your lands fall
into ruin. You grovel on bended knee to ask this upstart Phoenix King to
rule your own realm. You are a cur, happy to eat the scraps from the
tables of Tiranoc, Yvresse and Eataine while your people starve. You
build cities across the ocean, and navigate the wide world, while your
home festers in filth and decay. You are not fit to be a prince, much
less a king! Truly your father’s blood does not run in your veins, for
no true son of Anlec would allow himself to be so cowed.’

Malekith looked up at his mother, his face twisted with pain.

‘Kill her,’ he managed to spit through gritted teeth.

As if those words had broken a spell, Carathril found himself able to
move again. Sheathing his sword, he snatched his bow from the quiver
across his back and set an arrow to the string. As he pulled back his
arm, Morathi swung her staff towards him and he leapt aside just as a
dark bolt cracked the stone of the floor where he had been standing a
heartbeat earlier. As if also broken from trances, the cultists lounging
around the room leapt to their feet with snarls and shouts. Malekith
pushed himself to his feet, but another blast of Morathi’s sorcery
hurled him across the floor with a clatter of armour.

This inner coven fought with a feral tenacity, deranged from narcotic
vapours and their dedication to Morathi. Carathril tossed aside his bow
and drew his sword again as an elf with gem-headed pins piercing her
lips and cheeks ran at him with a flaming brand in her hands. Shouts and
shrieked curses filled the room and pungent smoke billowed as braziers
were knocked over in the struggle. Carathril felt the heat of the brand
in the cultist’s hands wash over him as he ducked a sweeping attack.

He struck out at the elf’s naked legs and cut her down at the knee,
sending her toppling to the floor. Even lying upon her back, Carathril
looming over her, she hurled abuse and thrust the brand at him. He
pushed the tip of his blade into her chest and she slumped to the marble
flagstones.

‘There will be no welcome for you in Anlec,’ Morathi snarled above the
din, having retreated to the dais. ‘Go back to that usurper and do not
return.’

Malekith gave a roar that nearly deafened Carathril and hacked with wild
abandon at the cultists who had surrounded him, dismembering and
decapitating with wide, sweeping blows. A gap opened up in the melee
between the prince and his mother and he stalked towards her, his sword
shining with magical energy. A look of panic swept the sorceress’s face
and she began to back away. Even as Malekith’s front foot fell upon the
dais, Morathi raised her staff above her head in both hands and a shadow
enveloped her, spreading like diaphanous wings to either side. Her body
melted and dissipated as those spectral wings beat thrice and swept
upwards, and then she was gone.

More knights of Anlec raced up from the stairwell and soon the remaining
cultists were slain or pacified. Carathril looked at Malekith, where he
still stood upon the dais. Where he had expected to see the prince still
in shock or perhaps wrought with grief, instead Malekith was a picture
of cold fury. The flame of his blade burned white-hot as he gripped it
in both hands before him, and his eyes glittered with barely controlled
magic.

The prince’s stare moved across the room until it fell upon Carathril,
who flinched at Malekith’s fell gaze. Carathril was locked in that
stare, fixed by two raging orbs of hate, and for a long heartbeat the
captain thought that the prince would attack him. The moment passed and
Malekith slumped, his sword falling from his fingertips to ring upon the
stone floor.

‘Nagarythe has fallen into darkness,’ he whispered, and now his eyes
were filled with tears.

At dawn, Malekith stood upon the rampart of Ealith and watched the sun
rising over the Annulii. In the light of day, the events of the past
night seemed dim, distorted. He could barely bring himself to believe
that Morathi had been the architect behind the rise of the cults. Now
that he considered it, he realised he should not have been at all
surprised. It was just like his mother: a network of spies and agents
across all of Ulthuan, power over the weak princes and their armies. He
cursed himself for allowing Morathi to spread her dark touch into Athel
Toralien and feared what he had left behind in Elthin Arvan.

Yet there was logic to her plan that Malekith could not dispel. Had he
not already started to use the cultists to his own end? The army of
Nagarythe was but one weapon, an unsubtle one at that; the cults of
luxury were a far more insidious force and all the more dangerous for
it. Morathi had told him as much on her visit to the colonies. Religion
and belief could be exploited for power, he had but to steel himself
against his distaste to wield them.

A shadow moved up the road towards the citadel and Malekith saw that it
was a swift-moving rider: one of the raven heralds. He watched as the
dark figure raced up the causeway and through the gates. It was not long
before Elthyrior strode up the steps to the wall and gave the prince a
nod of acknowledgement.

‘Grave news, Malekith,’ said the raven herald. ‘Ealith is ours, but
Nagarythe rises up in support of Morathi.’

‘How so?’ demanded the prince.

‘Some of my company have been corrupted by your mother,’ Elthyrior
admitted. ‘It was they who brought us here, to lure you into the
clutches of Morathi. We cannot know her intent, but I believe she sought
to turn you to her cause.’

‘In that she has failed,’ said the prince. ‘I have escaped her trap.’

‘Not yet,’ warned Elthyrior. ‘The cults are strong and much of the army
is loyal to your mother. Even now they march on Ealith, seeking to
surround you and destroy you. There is no sanctuary here.’

‘Thank you, Elthyrior,’ said Malekith. ‘If I could ask but another
favour of you. Ride forth with those you know to be loyal to me. Gather
what warriors and princes you can and send them south to Tiranoc.’

‘And you?’ asked Elthyrior.

Malekith did not reply for a moment, for what he was about to say pained
him more than any physical wound.

‘I must retreat,’ he said after a long while. ‘I am not yet ready to
challenge Morathi and we cannot be caught here.’

As Malekith ordered, so it was. The army marched westwards with all
speed, ever aware that ahead and behind the worshippers of the forbidden
gods were gathering in greater numbers. At Thirech Malekith faced a
motley army of several thousand, but the cultists were poorly led and
easily shattered by the charges of Malekith’s knights, quickly fleeing
into the fields and forests around the town.

For four days and five nights Malekith’s host marched onwards without
relent, seeking the harbour at Galthyr.

Just after dawn on the fifth day after the battle at Ealith, the army
rode into sight of Galthyr. Malekith ordered the army to wait out of
bowshot from the walls. On the prince’s orders, Yeasir rode slowly
towards the gate, shielding his eyes against the glare of the morning
sun reflected from the white walls. Figures moved upon the parapet, with
bows drawn. Yeasir reined his horse to a halt less than a stone’s throw
from the gate tower.

‘I am Yeasir, captain of Malekith!’ he called out. ‘Stand ready to
receive the prince of Nagarythe!’

There was no reply for quite some time, until several new figures
appeared upon the gatehouse battlement and stared down at the newcomer.
There was a brief consultation between the group, and then one raised a
curled golden horn to his lips and let free a clear, resounding note. At
the same time, a pennant broke free and fluttered from the flagpole,
silver and black.

‘The clarion of Anlec!’ laughed Malekith. ‘And the banner of my house!’

A great cheer welled up from the army as Malekith waved them forwards
and the gates opened before them. At a gallop they raced along the road,
passing swiftly into the town beyond, the rest of the amy marching with
haste behind them. No sooner had the last of them passed than the gates
swung closed again with a mighty crash.

Galthyr was half-ruined, with many buildings burnt or collapsed. Wounded
soldiers were gathered in the city’s squares, tended to by healers of
Isha. Malekith spied Prince Durinne walking amongst the casualties and
hailed Galthyr’s commander as he dismounted.

‘I see that we have not been fighting alone,’ said Malekith.

‘Indeed not,’ said Durinne, shaking Malekith’s hand. ‘Your fleet is safe
in the harbour, though only by the valiant efforts of my warriors.’

‘Morathi’s cultists?’ asked Malekith.

‘Some amongst the city’s populace were her creatures and we drove them
out,’ explained Durinne. ‘They returned two days ago with the armies of
Prince Kheranion and Turael Lirain. The prince demanded that I open the
gates and surrender Galthyr to his authority. He did not take kindly to
having arrows shot at him…’

‘You have my thanks,’ said Malekith. ‘It seems that the list of my
allies grows shorter each day. I have not room on my ships for many
more, but you are welcome to leave with me.’

‘Galthyr can stand for a while yet,’ said Durinne. ‘When you have left
there is little of value here for Morathi to covet. There are other
ports already under her sway.’

‘Yet she might wish to see you destroyed out of spite for resisting
her,’ said Malekith. ‘Come with me.’

‘I will not abandon my city or my people!’ Durinne said. ‘When the time
comes to leave, I have the means to make it happen. Do not spare any
more thought on my wellbeing, Malekith.’

Malekith laid a hand on Durinne’s shoulder, the gesture expressing the
gratitude he felt better than any words he could say.

Malekith was in no mood to tarry in Galthyr, for he was sure that even
now other ships would be making their way down the coast to blockade the
port. Only a few hundred townsfolk remained, but Malekith trusted them
not and would not allow them to evacuate upon the ships. The tide and
wind were fair, so that no sooner had the host arrived at Galthyr than
they left upon Indraugnir and another two great dragonships, and seven
hawkships. Three more hawkships Malekith sent north, to forestall any
pursuing fleet.

Heading south for several days, Malekith’s weary force was met by ships
from the Tiranoc fleet and escorted to the port of Athel Reinin. Here
Malekith left the greater part of his knights, and sent the Ellyrians
back to their homeland, warning them not to attack Nagarythe on their
own, but to protect the passes across the mountains. Carathril and the
charioteers of Tiranoc, who had been forced to burn their chariots at
Galthyr, formed a guard for the prince and they rode with all haste.
Messages were sent ahead by hawks from the watch towers of Athel Reinin,
carrying brief word of what had happened and counselling Bel Shanaar to
send troops to his northern border.

Eleven days after fighting for his life in Ealith, Malekith found
himself back once again in the council chamber of the Phoenix King. He
was still shocked at all that had happened; it hardly seemed possible
that his world could have changed so much in so little time. He felt
sick at the thought of the treachery of Morathi. The prince had
requested private audience with the Phoenix King, and had asked
Carathril to accompany him in his role as herald to Bel Shanaar, to
provide unbiased account. The king was sat upon his throne, dejected and
weary, while the prince and Carathril sat upon chairs in front of him.

‘You understand that while Morathi holds power, you will never regain
Nagarythe?’ Bel Shanaar said upon the conclusion of Malekith’s tale.
‘And to end her grip, she must be imprisoned or slain.’

Malekith did not answer immediately but stood up and paced away from the
throne. He despised Bel Shanaar, and despised himself more for needing
his help. Whatever his feelings for the Phoenix King, it was clear to
Malekith that he would never take his rightful place unless he reigned
over Nagarythe once more. He could not fight Morathi alone, and so he
was forced to humble himself before this usurper who now sat before him.
The simple truth was that Malekith needed Bel Shanaar and would have to
put aside his own ambitions for a time. Morathi had abandoned her son
and he no longer owed her any loyalty.

‘I disown her!’ Malekith declared, spinning on his heel. ‘Ever she has
clawed for power, and whispered in my ear that it is I who should wear
that cloak and crown. From the moment of Aenarion’s death, she has
ceaselessly pushed me to rule this isle. You remember how she screamed
and railed when I was the first to bend my knee to you, and ever since
she has sought to control me, to force me to power so that she might be
queen again. I know not why my father wed her, for she is conniving and
vain, and for all my life I remember nothing but her sharp tongue and
unbridled ambition. She has cast me aside, and even now, I suspect, she
raises up some other puppet in my place. She will not relent until she
holds sway over all of Ulthuan, and that is something that I shall not
abide.’

‘And yet, she is for all that, still your mother,’ said Bel Shanaar with
concern upon his face. ‘If it comes to such, would you be able to drive
your blade through her heart? Would your sword arm remain strong as you
struck off her head?’

‘It must be done, and I would have no other do it,’ replied Malekith.
‘There is a wicked irony that I should send from this world she who
brought me into it. Such considerations are yet far from our immediate
concern, for Nagarythe must be reclaimed first. I do not know what hold
she has over the other princes and nobles of Nagarythe. I hope that some
still resist her, but they will be scattered and few. She will twist and
distort my actions to those who waver, so that it appears that it is I
who is the aggressor. Our folk are loyal but they are not imaginative.
We are raised to obey orders, not to ask questions, yet there are many
still who would raise their banners beside their true prince. I shall
march to Anlec and overthrow the Witch Queen!’
