
TWENTY-TWO


Blades of Anlec

As the legions of Anlec had brought misery and dread to Ulthuan, so
Alith’s shadow warriors visited terror and woe upon the druchii. They
ranged across Tiranoc and Nagarythe, sometimes even daring Anlec itself
to kill members of the courts and mutilate their bodies with symbols of
dread: shadow and vengeance. Rarely did they gather in any numbers, so
that the Naggarothi armies could not know whether to march south or
north, to patrol the mountains or sweep the marshes and plains.

Alith would sometimes call a halt to the attacks, for dozens of days at
a time. The first time he did this, the druchii believed that perhaps
the mysterious Shadow King had been caught or slain. They were wrong,
and in one night Alith unleashed coordinated attacks across the
druchii-held territories, assassinating commanders, burning camps and
stealing supplies. The next time there was a lull, the druchii were more
fearful than when they were being attacked. The dreaded anticipation of
what the Shadow King would inflict upon them next occupied their waking
thoughts and tormented their dreams.

They were not disappointed. On midsummer’s day, an army marching east
towards the Eagle Pass vanished. It set out from Tor Anroc and never
made it to the garrison at Koril Atir. No bodies were found and there
was no sign of ambush; five thousand warriors were simply never seen
again.

The wailing of the elf maiden diminished quickly to a whimper and then
fell silent as her blood spilled from her throat and spread into a pool
upon the marble floor. Morathi contemplated her crimson reflection for a
while, pleased with what she saw. Six years of constant war might have
taken their toll on her underlings but she remained as fresh and
beautiful as she had been on that momentous day so many centuries
before.

She smiled at the recollection of her own naïveté of youth even as she
recalled the thrill of power she had felt during that first sorcerous
bargain. She had not known then quite how far that fateful encounter
with the daemons would take her, but she regretted not a single step
along the path. It was true that the swift victory she had once
envisaged was now beyond her grasp, but nevertheless the war progressed
well.

She dismissed the distracting thoughts with a shake of her head, her
long curls of hair sending a thrill through her body as they tickled her
shoulders. She fought back the urge to indulge in the sensation and
lifted the bloodstained knife in her hand. Delicately, she pricked the
tip of her thumb and allowed a single droplet of her own blood to fall
into the pool made by the sacrifice. Where it touched the offering, her
blood spread in a slow ripple, forming shadows of deeper red. The
shadows became more defined, showing a scene of the mountains. Clouds
scudded across the red sky and hung about crimson peaks. With a word she
focussed the vision, zooming in to Eagle Pass. Her magical eye swept
over a column of warriors and knights as they marched eastwards to
confront the army of upstart Imrik. They would not be victorious but
they would distract the usurper king long enough for other parts of her
plan to be set in motion.

A discreet cough pulled her attention towards one of the archways
leading into the chamber. A functionary dressed in silken robes bowed
low and the sorceress beckoned him in with a beringed finger.

‘Your guest awaits your pleasure, majesty,’ said the servant.

‘Bring him up immediately,’ Morathi replied. She turned back to the
scrying pool, instantly forgetting the servant’s presence.

‘Who is it?’ someone asked from one of the adjoining rooms. His voice
was hoarse, a whisper wracked with pain. ‘Is it… Hotek?’

‘No, it is not,’ Morathi replied. ‘He labours still, but his work will
be complete soon enough. No, our guest is someone else, who brings very
good news indeed.’

The scrape of a metal-shod foot on stone announced the arrival of
Morathi’s guest. He stood in the archway clad in armour that had been
tested much, scratched and dented in many places. His black hair was
swept back with a silver band and the right side of his face was livid
with a long scar, his eye on that side a blank white orb.

‘Prince Alandrian, how good of you to come,’ Morathi said huskily.

‘Milady,’ replied Alandrian with a bow. ‘It is my honour to finally come
here and see you in person after all these years.’

‘Yes it is,’ said Morathi. ‘But it is one that you deserve. What news of
my reinforcements?’

‘I have left a strong garrison at Athel Toralien and the siege is
ongoing, majesty,’ said Alandrian, unconsciously lifting a hand to his
ruined face. ‘The other colonies have been emptied of troops who now
sail for Ulthuan. Five hundred thousand of your bravest and noblest
warriors will be on these shores before winter.’

The prince’s smile was mirrored by Morathi.

‘That is good,’ she said. ‘While you await your troops, there is a small
matter I want you to deal with.’

‘I understand you wish to be rid of the so-called Shadow King,’ replied
Alandrian. ‘With your support, I will have his head on a lance by the
time the fleet arrives.’

‘You will have all the support you need,’ said Morathi. She looked
through the archway from which the other voice had come, her expression
suddenly pained. ‘It vexes us that all is not well in Nagarythe. I
expect you to restore stability as you did in Athel Toralien.’

‘It will be done,’ Alandrian replied with another bow. ‘I will bring you
the head of the Shadow King myself.’

‘I trust that you will,’ said Morathi.

‘Yeasir was a traitor,’ the husky voice said from the adjoining chamber,
its wavering tone hinting at delirium. ‘You would not betray us,
Alandrian?’

‘Yeasir was once strong, but when asked for true sacrifice he weakened,’
said Morathi. ‘Alandrian has already proven his loyalty in that matter,
haven’t you, Alandrian?’

‘Khaine called to my daughters and they answered willingly,’ said
Alandrian. ‘That their mother did not agree was unfortunate for her,
majesty. I regret her lack of wisdom but I cannot regret her death.’

‘I am told that your daughters’ studies go well and that they have
progressed far in the arts of Khaine,’ said the sorceress-queen. ‘I can
barely recall their demure attendance to me in Athel Toralien those many
years ago. Tell me, are they as devoted to their father now as they were
when last we met?’

‘Not as devoted as they are to the Lord of Murder,’ said Alandrian, his
scarred face creasing into a wry smile. ‘I am very proud of them and I
do not doubt that one day they will make all of Nagarythe similarly
proud.’

Morathi took a few steps towards Alandrian and laid a gentle hand upon
his ravaged cheek.

‘I could fix that for you, my dear,’ she said. ‘You could be as handsome
as you were when we first met.’

‘Thank you, majesty, but I must decline,’ said Alandrian. ‘My scars
remind me of the price of overconfidence. A mistake I will not repeat.’

‘You always… had the most sense… of us all,’ the whisper announced
between hissing intakes of breath.

Alandrian said nothing for a moment, but dared a glance towards Morathi.
The sorceress was distracted, still with a hand on his cheek, staring
into the adjacent room. He turned slightly to follow her gaze but
Morathi stepped in front of the prince, obscuring his view. She drew her
hand back slowly and shook her head.

‘Not yet,’ she said quietly. A golden tear formed in her eye. ‘Soon
enough you can see him.’

The cries of gulls and crash of waves masked what little noise was made
by the shadow army. The tang of salt on the air reminded Alith a little
of Tor Elyr, a taste unfamiliar to one who had lived most of his life
far from the sea. The Shadow King felt ill-at-ease. The headlands of
Cerin Hiuath, less than a day’s march south of Galthyr, were relatively
exposed in comparison to the shadow warriors’ usual hunting grounds. The
moorlands to the east provided cover for the two hundred warriors to
approach the coastal road, but the tops of the cliffs were all but
devoid of features to offer concealment.

Despite his misgivings, Alith had brought a force here to strike at a
worthy prize. Word had come to the Shadow King that several of Morathi’s
court, leaders of the various cults that vied for power within
Nagarythe, were to take ship at Galthyr and sail north to join the
druchii armies in Chrace. Knowing that the route direct from Anlec would
be closely watched, the cult magisters were to take a more indirect
route, travelling south-west before heading up the coast to the port.
The possibility of killing or capturing these influential cultists was
too tempting to pass up, and so Alith had hurriedly put out the command
to several of the shadow warrior cadres to join him in the west.

For two days since they had gathered the shadow warriors watched the
coast road for signs of the entourage. Alith expected them to be
travelling with little protection: any large force moving out of Anlec
would have attracted unwanted attention. If his two hundred warriors
were not enough for the task, they would simply withdraw without being
seen. Although the shadow warriors’ daring had become part of the myth
surrounding the Shadow King, the truth was that Alith thought himself a
cautious commander, risking his warriors only when the odds were in his
favour or, as now, the gains of victory warranted additional gambit. In
this way the shadow warriors had suffered only a few dozen casualties
since they had begun their campaign.

If the cultists were as careful as Alith thought they would be, they
would travel fast and light, hoping to avoid detection. The fact that
the course of the war in Avelorn and Cothique had lured these primates
out of Anlec was in itself a victory of sorts, upon which Alith intended
to capitalise as much as possible. The disappearance of the cult leaders
would send their followers into disarray for some time, the power
struggles and internal conflict ravaging Anlec and leaving the druchii
vulnerable to further attacks. It was pleasing to Alith to turn the
cults’ weapons of disorder and fear against them, inflicting upon them
the woes they had engineered for the princes of Ulthuan for several
centuries. As they lived, so would they die.

Shortly after midday, one of the shadow warrior scouts came running hard
from the south. He breathlessly reported his news to Alith and
Khillrallion.

‘Riders, lord, coming fast along the road,’ the scout told them. ‘I
would say no more than thirty of them.’

‘Are they the counsellors?’ asked Khillrallion. ‘Are they the ones we
hunt?’

‘I believe so,’ said the shadow warrior. ‘There are some twenty knights,
the others are armed but dressed in fineries. One of them has long white
hair braided with black roses, which matches what we know of Diriuth
Hilandrerin, the magister of the cult of Atharti. He is responsible for
the massacres at Enen Aisuin and Laureamaris. Another rides under a red
banner marked with the dagger of Khaine, which was borne by the warriors
of Khorlandir during the first siege of Lothern. I do not recognise the
others but they wear many of the profane symbols of the cults.’

‘They are our prey,’ said Alith. He half-turned his head for a moment as
he heard the faintest of whispers from the moonbow in the quiver upon
his back. ‘I can feel it in my bones. Their darkness comes before them
like a wave.’

‘Make ready for the ambush,’ Khillrallion told the shadow warrior. ‘Send
a hawk to us when our quarry have passed your position. We will come at
them from north, east and south and trap them.’

Alith nodded his assent; this was the plan he had outlined to the
shadow-walkers a few days earlier.

‘I want prisoners if possible,’ the Shadow King reminded his companions.
‘These creatures may be able to tell us much of what passes in Anlec,
and of forces loyal to them in the other kingdoms. For the violence and
suffering they have unleashed upon us, their deaths should be neither
swift nor painless.’

The messenger set off at a run as Khillrallion departed to bring news of
the imminent attack to the other shadow-walkers. Alith stayed where he
was, in the shadow of an outcrop of rock directly overlooking the road.
The coastal path was broad and paved with white stone, winding its way
along the edge of the land less than a bow’s shot from the crashing
seas. He had picked a stretch of the road where the coast heaped into
rough hills and dropped away sharply to jagged rocks at the water’s
edge. The ambushers had not only the advantage of surprise but also
position. The shadow warriors had the ambush site well scouted, and
despite the scarcity of cover most of them could be concealed within a
few hundred paces of the road and would strike before being seen. The
rest were to remain out of sight further east, to move in as a reserve
should resistance be stronger than anticipated.

Alith drew forth the moonbow and gave it a loving stroke.

‘More blood for you today,’ he whispered as he fitted an arrow to the
string.

Alith heard the riders before he could see them. Hooves pounded on the
cobbles of the road as the druchii made a dash for the comparative
safety of Galthyr. He waited, fighting back tension and excitement, and
cast a glance behind him to ensure that none of his warriors could be
seen. In this regard the Shadow King was very pleased. Even though he
knew where each shadow warrior lay in wait, not a single one caught his
eye.

A troop of ten knights were the first to come into view, their silver
armour gleaming in the summer sun, their black uniforms and banners
streaming in the sea breeze. Alith let them pass without hindrance. A
short distance behind, perhaps only a few dozen paces, the rest of the
party galloped: ten more knights formed up around a knot of lavishly
dressed nobles and retainers.

When the magisters and their bodyguards were almost level with Alith, he
rose from his hiding place, moonbow ready. He was a heartbeat from
letting loose the string when a shout from behind him drew his
attention. Furious that one of his warriors had betrayed their presence,
Alith turned to see what had happened. His anger quickly became alarm
when he saw what had caused the cry.

Along the hills to the east a line of warriors appeared, regiment upon
regiment of warriors in black and purple advancing beneath long banners.
Crossbowmen formed into lines on the flanks as spearmen and swordsmen
advanced in the centre. On and on they came, thousands of druchii.

Alith spared no time trying to answer the question that hammered into
his brain at the first sight of the army: how did so many warriors come
to be here? Rather than ponder that which he could not answer, Alith
leapt immediately to a more pressing issue: how to escape?

The twenty knights had come together in a single squadron on the road
and faced eastwards, barring any route to the north; their charges
continued along the road and were quickly disappearing from sight.

Running figures from the south – shadow warriors shouting warnings as
they approached – told Alith they there was no sanctuary in that
direction either.

‘To me!’ Alith called out. ‘Rally to me!’

The Shadow King watched the wave of black-armoured warriors advancing
from the east as the shadow warriors gathered around him. A glance at
the sun told him that the druchii had timed their attack well; they
would be at the road some time before the first evening shadows fell.

‘We have been lured into a trap,’ Alith said hurriedly as the shadow
warriors clustered around him. They crouched in a circle, partially
concealed by the grass of the hills. Some stared intently at Alith with
desperation in their eyes, others cast nervous glances at the knights on
the road or allowed their gaze to be drawn to the army in the east. The
riders close at hand seemed content to stay out of bow’s reach. Why
would they not? Alith thought, there is no need to attack with so many
reinforcements on the way.

‘The sea is our only escape,’ Alith said. ‘We must reach the waters and
then swim south and come ashore at Koril Thandris. From there, we
separate and make our way east, to meet again at Cardain.’

‘The knights will charge if we attempt to cross the road,’ said
Khillrallion. ‘We cannot outrun warhorses.’

‘Then we must kill the knights first,’ said Alith with a shrug.

‘Bows against fully armoured knights?’ asked one of the shadow warriors,
a young elf called Faenion.

‘There are only twenty of them,’ snapped Alith. ‘Shoot at their horses;
on foot they will be little match for us. When the road is clear, we
head down to the shore a little way to the south, where there is a
shingle beach.’

At this the shadow warrior who had come from the south before the ambush
spoke again.

‘There are more knights moving up the road from that direction,’ he said
with a shake of his head. ‘At least fifty of them. I do not think we can
reach the sea that way before they cut off the road.’

Alith growled in frustration. It was not just the fact that he had been
caught out that upset him; he had enjoyed so many successes of late his
luck had been bound to run out at some point. What worried him more was
the precision with which the trap had been set. The bait had been
irresistible and the enemy had guessed exactly where and when he would
strike. The Shadow King wondered for a moment if he had become too
predictable, but dismissed the notion as soon as it came. Whoever had
masterminded this particular trap had simply got the better of him this
time.

‘We’ll have to climb down the cliffs,’ Alith said at last. ‘Slay the
knights at hand and get to the clifftops. From there we’ll just have to
take our chances amongst the rocks.’

The shadow warriors exchanged worried glances and there were a few
murmurs of dismay.

‘The enemy will not wait for you to regain your courage!’ snarled Alith,
pointing a finger towards the lines of black steadily closing from the
east. ‘Follow me, or stay here and die.’

Alith stood up and strode purposefully towards the Anlec knights on the
road. He lifted up the moonbow and sighted along the shaft, his aim
settling on a rider at the front of the formation. The arrow leapt from
the string and took the knight full in the chest, punching through iron
and tearing from his back to pass through the throat of the rider behind
him.

Startled, the knights took a moment to collect themselves ready for a
charge, in which time Alith felled three more with another shot.
Lowering their lances, the knights urged their steeds into a full gallop
and thundered towards the shadow warriors. Alith watched them coolly. On
the Ellyrion plains and in the forests of Avelorn, he had learnt the
reputation of these deadly riders was greater than their actual
strength. When he might once have trembled at the armoured warriors
bearing down on him, he felt only contempt.

Another shot from the moonbow sliced through the neck of the lead horse
and buried itself in the chest of the following steed, sending both
crashing to the ground. The other shadow warriors sent their own arrows
arcing into the knights in a series of deadly volleys and before the
knights had crossed half the distance from the road all were dead or
lying wounded in the grass.

A look over his shoulder confirmed to Alith that the approaching army
was now closing fast.

‘To the cliffs, follow me,’ he shouted, stowing the moonbow and breaking
into a run directly towards the sea.

Alith led the retreat, casting glances over his shoulder towards the
approaching druchii host as the shadow warriors reached the road. The
enemy were advancing quickly but Alith and his warriors would be at the
cliff edge before their repeater crossbows were in range. A look to the
south revealed the knights coming along the road; they too would not
reach the shadow warriors before they were safely moving down the cliff.
Though the situation was not good, Alith was more confident than when he
had first seen the banners rising over the hills. Despite this he did
not allow himself to relax.

‘Keep moving!’ Alith ordered as several of his warriors took up
positions to shoot at the oncoming druchii. ‘No rearguard will hold them
back.’

When he was a few dozen strides from the cliff edge Alith caught his
first glimpse of the sea. He marvelled at the unending dark blue horizon
but as he continued forwards he saw the wider expanse of the ocean. High
waves rolled in towards Ulthuan, far stronger than the tides of the
Inner Sea he had witnessed at Tor Elyr. Ignoring his own command, he
stumbled to a halt, mesmerised by the spectacle. As far as he could see
in every direction stretched the Great Ocean, dwarfing him with its
size. Far beyond lay the jungles of Lustria, where the descendants of
the Old Ones’ servants clung to civilisation. Ruined cities and steaming
mangroves, treacherous swamps and ancient treasures awaited bold
adventurers and explorers.

Alith realised how little of the world he had seen. He had never been to
Elthin Arvan to the east, or the colonies of Elithis, or the towers of
the elves far to the south. Had it not been for the civil war, would he
have ever visited Ellyrion or Avelorn?

Shouts from his shadow warriors broke Alith’s reverie and he snapped
back to the current situation. His companions were pointing down to the
seas and there he saw something that sapped his confidence as quickly as
it had returned: three black ships at anchor not far from the shore.

Reaching the cliff edge, Alith looked down to gauge the difficulty of
the descent. The cliff was not quite vertical, the strata of rocks
pronounced in light and dark bands, the surface pitted with many holes
and ledges. It was not the most difficult climb Alith had attempted. The
cliff was not the problem, the greatest dangers were at their feet where
surf crashed against jagged rocks and swirled in strong currents through
jutting piles of ­tumbled boulders.

Something black and heavy blurred through the air close by Alith,
quickly followed by other projectiles. Several shadow warriors were
thrown from their feet with long shafts jutting from their bodies as the
ships loosed their deadly bolt throwers. The swish of spear-sized
missiles filled the air as more shadow warriors were cut down by another
volley.

Along the cliff face warriors threw down their weapons to lighten
themselves, some of them tearing off their cloaks and boots as well.
Many hesitated, staring in horror at the black ships lurking out to sea
or transfixed by the bodies of the slain.

‘Keep moving!’ Alith yelled again, unfastening his cloak and tossing it
to the ground. Looking left and right he saw his followers pulling
themselves over the cliff to begin the long descent. He grabbed the
quiver from his back, ready to cast it aside, but hesitated. The moonbow
gleamed in the sunlight. He could not abandon such a hard-won prize.
Pulling it free, he passed the moonbow over his shoulder, threw away the
quiver and then swung himself over the clifftop.

The shadow warriors were nimble and well-versed in climbing, and soon
most of them were halfway down the cliff. Bolts from the lurking vessels
hammered into the grey stone, some of the shots finding their mark,
sending shadow warriors tumbling down to the frothing surf below. Rock
shrapnel splintered from the iron heads of the bolts as they crashed
into the cliff face, shredding Alith’s clothes and grazing skin. One
bolt missed his foot by the smallest of margins, pulverising the rock on
which he had been stood. Alith scrabbled to find a new grip as he swung
dangerously from one hand.

Panicked shouts and cries of pain mixed with the sound of the waves as
Alith dropped from one handhold to the next, swinging from ledge to
outcrop, his fingers finding purchase in small cracks, his toes making
solid footing out of striations no wider than a finger.

More and more of Alith’s warriors were falling to the bolt throwers,
their screams drowned in the thunder of the sea as they plummeted into
the swirling waves. Perhaps a quarter of their number had already been
lost.

‘They’ll kill us all!’ Alith bellowed to his followers. ‘Leap into the
water!’

The shadow warriors were too fearful of jumping to their possible
deaths, but to Alith it was more certain that their doom would come if
they remained on the cliff face.

‘With me!’ he cried, letting go his handholds and pushing out with all
of the strength in his legs.

Wind battered Alith’s face and tore at his hair as he fell towards the
seas. He saw the foaming spume hurled into the air by the sharp
pinnacles of the reefs, but it was the rocks below the water that he
feared more. He closed his eyes and angled into a dive with a silent
prayer to the sea god Mannanin upon his lips.

Hitting the water was like being kicked by a horse, forcing all of the
air from Alith’s body. He banged his right arm against something and
immediately lost all feeling in his hand. He was engulfed by a storm of
bubbles, tossing him this way and that, threatening to dash him against
the rocks. He was turned upside down, twisted back and forth by the
fierce eddies, the water colouring red from his wounds. Light and dark
whirled as he rolled between the surface and the forbidding depths.
Coldness seeped into his flesh and gnawed at his bones.

Alith struck out, fighting against a surge that threatened to drag him
deeper and deeper into the water. One-handed he clawed his way to the
bubbling surface, buffeted and buoyed by the heaving waves. Twice more
the current snapped at his legs, pulling him under, filling his mouth
with salt water. He coughed and spluttered, and gave a howl of pain as
he was thrown into the sharp edge of a spire-like reef, a long gash torn
across his stomach. The current tugged at the moonbow, its string
cutting deep into Alith’s arm. It tangled with his legs and batted
against his face, but Alith would not relinquish his prized weapon.

Stroke by painful stroke, the Shadow King forged through the waters. He
managed to gain his bearings and turned south, away from the druchii
ships. A look back to the cliffs confirmed that the druchii army had
arrived. Crossbowmen unleashed a storm of quarrels from above, picking
off those shadow warriors who did not possess the courage to make the
leap into the sea.

Slicks of red stained the water, and Alith had no idea how many warriors
had been lost. He saw several, Khillrallion among them, clinging to the
rocks, gasping for breath. They were sheltered in the lee of a giant
pinnacle that stood apart from the rest of the cliff like a huge grey
needle. Alith swam over to them and grabbed a handhold in the cracked
surface of the rock.

‘We cannot stay here,’ Alith panted. He pointed upwards, to the
gathering druchii troops, too breathless to say anything further.
Khillrallion nodded in understanding and signalled for the others to
follow.

Exhausted, Alith pushed away, unable to spare any more thought for his
followers. He needed all of his strength and focus just to stay alive.
