
FIFTEEN 

A Bold Oath

Carathril felt wearier than he had ever felt before in his long years.
For eighty days since becoming the herald of the Phoenix King, he had
ridden across the length and breadth of Ulthuan. He had crossed back and
forth over the Annulii Mountains; south to the mountains and hills of
Caledor where the Dragonriders lived in tall castles amidst the mountain
peaks; north to Chrace, where the warriors wore the pelts of fierce
white lions hunted by their own hands.

Carathril had crossed the Sea of Dusk and the Sea of Dreams to Saphery,
where mages ruled and the fields were tilled by enchanted ploughs and
lanterns of ghostfire glittered in the towns. He had taken ship to
Avelorn, the beautiful forests of the Everqueen, though he had not met
the ceremonial wife of the Phoenix King on his visits, only her stern
guard of handmaidens and the priestesses of Isha. In Yvresse, he had
sailed amongst the eastern islands and camped under the wooded boughs of
the Athel Yvrain. He had become accustomed to the long rides and nights
spent under the stars or in strange beds, driven on by his duty to the
Phoenix King.

He had borne the tidings of Bel Shanaar to the princes, and as winter
closed her chill grip upon the Outer Kingdoms, Carathril had reluctantly
returned with their replies: none was willing to lead the soldiery of
Ulthuan against the pleasure cults.

Now he rested, as he had done for the past seven days, sitting upon one
of the benches in the audience chamber of the palace, lulled half-asleep
by the droning of the princes’ voices below. For weeks they had arrived
and left, seeking counsel from Bel Shanaar and each other, bringing
tidings, mostly grim, of events across the realms of Ulthuan.

As far as Carathril could tell, the conflict with the cults of pleasure
and excess was growing in intensity. From his own experience in Lothern
he knew that it seemed that another sect would emerge even as one was
destroyed. It was becoming evident that for some time now, many years
likely, the cults had been prospering outside of the cities and large
towns. Distant farms and isolated hunting lodges had become meeting
places for those drawn to the forbidden rituals of these cults, and here
thriving communities had established themselves. Cult members had spread
far and wide, and there was no telling how many figures of authority,
how many nobles and commanders were now in their grip. Carathril had
wanted to believe that the insurgence of dark practices and loathsome
ceremonies had been halted, but each revelation dashed his hopes a
little further.

The fundamental problem was that each kingdom was confident in its own
abilities to combat the emerging fanaticism of the cults, but was
suspicious of its neighbours. Even though united under the rule of the
Phoenix King, each realm was a sovereign territory of its princes, ruled
over in the Phoenix King’s name.

The princes had a great amount for which to be worried, and each had a
vested interest in protecting the fortunes of his kingdom, for all the
ruling families were powerful, militarily, politically and economically.
They were descended from the bravest and strongest of Aenarion’s
captains, who had wielded the magical weapons of Caledor Dragontamer
against the daemon hosts. They had a bloodright to rule their lands, and
each jealously guarded his domains with the ferocity of a she-lion
protecting her young.

No prince could agree to allow another to control the armies of their
house, nor could they comfortably consent to having the troops of
another realm stationed in their lands. To Carathril’s simple mind it
seemed as if they ever postured and manoeuvred for aid whilst never
offering their own. Once enamoured of these lofty rulers, Carathril was
quickly tiring of their political ways. In short, Carathril realised,
the majority of the princes – both those that ruled over a realm and
those that served them – considered the wider purging of the cults to be
somebody else’s problem.

It seemed as if a few of the princes felt the same as the herald. Of all
the princes, Carathril considered Imrik to be closest to the herald in
outlook and opinion. He was plain-speaking, thought of as gruff, even
rude, by some of his peers, and feared inaction more than anything.

As the grandson of the great Caledor Dragontamer, he was considered the
noblest of all the princes, and this stirred jealousy in the hearts of
others. They all feared the power of the kingdom of Caledor, for it was
from here the dragon knights hailed, a force greater than any mustered
by other realms. As was the way of powerful individuals, many of the
princes were loath to surrender control of their forces to another, and
for his part Imrik was unwilling to shoulder the responsibilities he
thought were being shirked by the other princes.

Carathril missed Lothern dearly. He had passed through his home city
some fifty days earlier to bear news to Prince Haradrin, now ruler of
the realm of Eataine. What he had seen, the suspicion and fear in the
eyes of his people, made Carathril long to be dispensed from the Phoenix
King’s service so that he might return and aid his folk. Yet it was not
to be, for Bel Shanaar ever sought more diplomacy with the princes, and
Carathril was required to be on hand at short notice.

Carathril felt alone amongst these high-ranking personages, for Aerenis
had left for Lothern only a few days after they had first arrived. Those
few elves that Carathril knew in Tor Anroc were cordial enough, but it
quickly became evident that his position as herald not only denied him
much time for personal matters and socialising, but also made those
around him wary of speaking their mind. They persistently enquired of
delicate matters from Carathril, seeking confirmation of rumours and
nuggets of information from the Phoenix King’s court, and Carathril was
reluctant to confide what little he really knew for fear of being seen
as a gossip, unworthy of the trust bestowed upon him.

The more Carathril learned of the secretive nature of the cults – of how
many of the members led plain and normal lives on the surface but
performed hedonistic and despicable acts in private – the more he became
distrustful. Eventually, he had decided to forego his rare excursions to
the rest of the city and now stayed solely within the confines of the
palace when he was in Tor Anroc.

A stir amongst the court roused Carathril as two more joined their
number. He recognised them immediately as Prince Finudel, ruler of
Ellyrion and his sister, Princess Athielle. They had arrived only two
days ago and caused much commotion with promises of cavalry and spearmen
for the cause. Carathril leaned forwards, his chin cupped in his hand,
and listened to what was being said.

‘It matters not if the horsemasters of Ellyrion stand ready to ride
forth,’ Prince Bathinair of Yvresse was saying. ‘Who are they to ride
forth against, my dear Finudel? You can hardly lead a cavalry charge
through every village and town in Ulthuan.’

‘Perhaps you seek to upset the harmony between the realms for your own
ends,’ added Caladryan, another of Yvresse’s nobility. ‘It is no secret
that of late the fortunes of Ellyrion have waned. War suits those with
little to lose, and it costs those who have the means. Our endeavours
across the oceans bring us wealth and goods from the colonies; perhaps
Ellyrion is jealous of that.’

Finudel opened his mouth to speak, his anger etched in creases across
his brow, but Athielle quickly laid a hand on her brother’s arm to still
him.

‘It is true that we have perhaps not prospered as much as some,’ the
Ellyrian princess said quietly. ‘In part that is because we of the Inner
Kingdoms must pay the taxes of Lothern to pass our fleets into the Great
Ocean. If not for those taxes, I suspect that the Outer Kingdoms would
perhaps have less of a monopoly of trade.’

‘We cannot be held to account for the quirks of geography,’ sneered
Prince Langarel, one of Haradrin’s kin from Lothern. ‘The sea gates must
be maintained, and our war fleet stands ever ready for the benefit of
all. It is fitting, then, that all should contribute to the cost of
maintaining these defences.’

‘And against whom do you defend us?’ growled Finudel. ‘Men? Hut-dwelling
savages who can barely cross a river, and an ocean divides us from them.
The dwarfs? They are content to dig in the mountains and sit in their
caves. The slaves of the Old Ones? Their cities lie in ruins, their
civilisation swallowed by the hot jungles. Your fleet is not required, a
token of the hubris of Lothern kept gilded by the labours of the other
realms.’

‘Must every old slight and rankle be dredged up before me every day?’
demanded Bel Shanaar, his voice cutting sharply through the raised
voices of the princes. ‘There is nothing to be gained from this
bickering, and everything to be lost. While we argue over the spoils of
our growing colonies, our cities here at hand are being devoured by
decadence and forbidden pursuits. Would you have us abandon our roots
and settle in the newly grown branches of our realm? The world has
riches enough for us all, if we could set aside these incessant
arguments.’

‘The power of the cults grows, that much is clear,’ said Thyriol, from
where he sat upon one of the ring of innermost benches surrounding the
hall. All turned to the mage in expectation.

‘The vortex holds the winds of magic in check for the moment, but dark
magic is gathering in the mountains. Strange creatures have been seen in
the highest peaks, unnatural things spawned from the power of Chaos. Not
all things of darkness were purged by the blade of Aenarion and the
vortex of Caledor. Hybrid monsters of flesh, mutant and depraved, dwell
still in the wilderness. The dark magic feeds them, emboldens them,
makes them stronger and cannier. Even now, the passes become ever more
dangerous to travel. In the winter when the hunters and soldiers cannot
keep these growing numbers of beasts at bay, what then? Will we have
manticores and hydras descend into the lowlands to attack farms and
destroy villages? If we allow the cults to grow unchecked, perhaps even
the vortex itself will fail and once more plunge the world into an age
of darkness and daemons. Is there one here with the will to prevent
that?’

The assembled princes stood in silence, eyeing each other, avoiding the
gaze of the Phoenix King.

‘There is one perhaps that has the will,’ a voice called out, echoing
along the audience chamber from the doorway. Its timbre was firm and
deep, filled with authority.

A ripple of gasps and whispers spread through the court as the newcomer
strode purposefully across the lacquered floor, the fall of his riding
boots sounding like the thunder of war drums. He was dressed in a long
skirt of golden mail and his chest was covered with a gold breastplate
etched with the design of a dragon, coiled and ready to attack. He wore
a cloak of shadow-black across his shoulders, held with a clasp adorned
with a black gem set into a golden rose. Under one arm he carried a tall
war helm, fixed with a strange circlet of dark grey metal that had
jutting, thorn-like spines. A complex headband of golden threads swept
back raven hair that fell about his shoulders in twisted plaits tied
with rings of rune-etched bone. His eyes were piercing, dark, as he
stared at the nervous princes and courtiers. He radiated power, his
energy and vigour surrounding him as surely as light glows from a
lantern.

The princes parted before the newcomer like waves before a ship’s prow,
treading and stumbling upon robes and cloaks in their eagerness to back
away. A few bowed stiffly or nodded heads in unthinking deference as he
swept past to stand in front of the Phoenix King, his left hand, gloved
in supple black leather, resting on the golden pommel of a sword hanging
in an ebon scabbard at his waist.

‘Prince Malekith,’ said Bel Shanaar evenly, stroking his bottom lip with
a slender finger. ‘Had I known of your coming I would have arranged
suitable welcome.’

‘Such ceremony is unnecessary, your majesty,’ replied Malekith, his tone
of voice warm, his manner as smooth as velvet. ‘I thought it prudent to
arrive unannounced, lest our enemies be warned of my return.’

‘Our enemies?’ said Bel Shanaar, turning a hawkish look upon the prince.

‘Even across the oceans, as I fought against vile beasts and brutal
orcs, I heard of the woes that beset our home,’ Malekith explained. He
paused and turned to face the princes and their counsellors. ‘Alongside
the dwarfs, beside their kings, I and my companions fought to keep our
new lands safe. Friends I had that gave their lives protecting the
colonies, and I would not have their deaths be in vain, that our cities
and our island here would fall to ruin even as we raise sparkling towers
and mighty fortresses across the length and breadth of the world.’

‘And so you have returned to us in our hour of need, Malekith?’ said
Imrik haughtily, stepping in front of Malekith with his arms crossed
defensively.

‘You must also have heard that which vexes us most,’ said Thyriol
softly, standing up and pacing towards the prince of Nagarythe, stepping
between Malekith and Imrik. ‘We would wish to prosecute our war against
these insidious evils across all of Ulthuan. All of Ulthuan.’

‘That is why I have returned,’ replied Malekith, meeting the mage’s keen
gaze with his own piercing stare. ‘Nagarythe is gripped by this torment
no less than other lands; more I have heard on occasion. We are one
island, one realm under the rule of the Phoenix King, and Nagarythe will
not be party to insurrection, nor shall we tolerate black magics and
forbidden rituals.’

‘You are our greatest general, our most sound strategist, Prince
Malekith,’ said Finudel, his voice hesitant with hope. ‘If it pleases
all present, would you take up the banner of the Phoenix King and lead
the fight against these miserable wretches?’

‘In you runs the noblest blood of all princes,’ gushed Bathinair, one of
the Yvressian princes present. ‘As you fought the darkness alongside
your father, you could again bring the light back to Ulthuan!’

‘Eataine would stand by you,’ promised Haradrin with a clenched fist
held to his chest.

A chorus of pleading and thanks bubbled up from the assembled nobles,
but fell silent the moment Malekith raised a hand to still them. The
Naggarothi prince turned his head and looked at Bel Shanaar, saying
nothing. The Phoenix King sat in thought, his lips pursed, steepling his
slender fingers beneath his chin. Bel Shanaar then looked at Imrik’s
stern expression, an eyebrow raised in question upon the Phoenix King’s
face.

‘If it is the will of the Phoenix King and this court, then Caledor will
not oppose Malekith,’ Imrik said slowly, before turning away and
stalking from the room.

An almost imperceptible expression of relief softened the furrows in Bel
Shanaar’s frown, and he sat back and gave a perfunctory nod towards the
prince of Nagarythe.

‘As it pleases this court, so shall I act,’ declared Malekith. ‘A
company of my finest warriors, fighters hardened by war across the seas
one-and-all, rides even now to Anlec to announce my return. The army of
Nagarythe shall be roused, and no hall nor cave nor cellar shall avoid
our gaze. The raven heralds shall ride forth again, and all rumour shall
come to our ears so that our foe might not hide. With mercy we shall
temper our vengeance, for it is not our desire to slay needlessly those
who are simply misguided. By trunk and root we shall tear free this tree
of rotten fruit that feeds upon our fair nation, and we shall set free
those trapped beneath its dark bower. No matter how high that tree
reaches, no matter how powerful or prominent its leaders are, they shall
not escape justice.’
