
THREE 

The Flames are Fanned

To visit the dragon lairs was no simple expedition, and Imrik was forced
to wait until the spring on the vehement instructions of his wife.
Tythanir was excited for the whole winter, asking his father every day
if they were going to see the dragons. Such was his anticipation, the
boy handled every disappointing reply with forced dignity, fearful that
the offer would be withdrawn altogether if he made too much of a fuss.

Though Imrik tried to avoid all news of wider Ulthuan, he could not help
but hear of the travails from the other kingdoms from his family and
other nobles. The cults had risen up against the princes, burning and
murdering and bringing anarchy to many towns and cities. Even in Tor
Anroc, cults were found, but still the kingdom of Caledor was free from
the presence of the cytharai-worshippers.

When the first sun of spring finally touched Anul Caled above the city,
Imrik announced that the weather was fair enough to set out for the
dragon caves. Though he did not know it, another expedition was setting
forth at the same time; Prince Malekith’s army marched across the
Annulii, destined for the Naggarothi capital of Anlec and a
confrontation with his mother.

Dorien and Thyrinor joined Imrik’s family on the journey, along with
several other nobles whose sons had yet to see the dragons of their
homeland. To witness the creatures in their lairs was a birthright and a
privilege known only to the Caledorian nobility, and so it was
unsurprising that there was much ceremony and celebration surrounding
the trip.

It took five days for the caravan to wind its way up to the higher
passes of the mountains; a journey a dragon could fly in a day, Imrik
thought wistfully as his carriage bumped and rolled over the uneven
road. Dozens of wagons carried the families and their servants, each
flying the green and red flag of Caledor.

Each morning the children woke with the dawn, gazing hopefully into the
cloudy skies for their first sight of a dragon, yet nothing larger than
a bird of prey was to be seen. The clouds grew heavier, joined by the
fumes and vapours of the volcanoes. The rocks were dark grey and the
caravan traversed ancient lava flows, heading higher still.

By late afternoon on the fifth day, they came to the Vale of the Drake,
a bleak gorge nestling within the Dragon Spine Mountains. Hundreds of
cave entrances broke the slopes like gaping mouths; from many, wisps of
steam and smoke curled lazily into the valley.

They left the horses and wagons and went on foot, Dorien carrying a long
instrument made from a dragon’s horn tipped and rimmed with gold. The
princes and their young charges stopped upon a lifeless mound of shining
rock in the middle of the vale.

Dorien lifted the dragon horn to his lips and blew a single bass note
that echoed for a long time.

‘Will the dragons come?’ asked Tythanir.

‘Hush,’ said Thyrinor. ‘Listen.’

All stood in silent expectation, the children straining to hear so hard
that some of them stood on tiptoe.

‘Blow it again, uncle,’ said Tythanir.

‘Quiet,’ snapped Imrik. ‘Patience.’

It seemed as if the horn blast continued to reverberate from the cave
mouths, long after any natural echoes would have died away. Yet rather
than diminishing, the sound grew in strength. All turned left and right,
trying to pinpoint the source of the noise. It seemed to issue from
every cavern at once.

‘There!’ hissed Dorien, pointing behind them and to the left.

There was the faintest flicker of light in the smog that crept from the
cave, as of distant fire. To the keen ears of the elves came the sound
of scratching, as of monstrous talons scraping rock and scales sliding
against stone. The answering call to the horn continued, dipping and
rising. Imrik’s skin prickled at the sound, even though he knew its
cause; the breath of a dragon rebounding strangely along the maze of
tunnels that riddled the mountains.

Closer and closer came the sound, and brighter and brighter glowed the
light. It was a trick of the featureless gorge that the caves seemed
small, for Imrik had walked them and knew some to be large enough for a
ship to pass into.

With a billowing of fumes, something immense launched itself from the
cave entrance; broad wings unfurling to catch the thermals of its own
fire, a red dragon soared into the sky. A few of the children shrieked
at the sight, but most stood dumbfounded; Imrik remembered his own
silent awe and terror when he had stood on this same spot with his
father.

As the dragon circled above, Imrik knew it immediately to be his own
mount.

‘You are fortunate,’ he told Tythanir and the others. ‘This is
Maedrethnir, the oldest of the dragons to remain awake. It is a great
honour to meet him. Be sure to show proper respect.’

Necks craning to watch the dragon above, children and adults followed
Maedrethnir’s progress as his shadow flitted across the mountainsides
and disappeared as he rose into the clouds. There were some sighs of
disappointment, but Imrik smiled, knowing what to expect. The old dragon
was showing off, just as he had done the first time Imrik had seen him.

The whispers from the children turned to gasps as the clouds above the
valley began to roil across the sky, lit from within by patches of
orange. As the fumes and vapours swirled, a dark shape blurred through
the air at their heart. The glow deepened, becoming a blood red that
grew more intense with each heartbeat.

Maedrethnir burst from the clouds like a meteor, wreathed in flame and
smoke, plunging straight at the elves. At first the children laughed
with delight. A piercing cry split the air, building in volume as the
dragon continued to dive. The giggles died away and Imrik felt Tythanir
slip his hand into his father’s, grip tightening as the dragon roared
closer and closer.

There were some wails of panic from the youngest children, and anxious
murmuring from the others. Down plunged Maedrethnir, flames licking
along his body and wings, trailing spirals of black smog. Imrik felt his
son tug at his hand and heard him urge his father to move. The prince
held Tythanir to the spot. The pulling grew more insistent with every
moment, Maedrethnir a comet of flame and scale and claw hurtling towards
the barren mound.

Just as the children’s screams cut the cold air, the dragon snapped open
his wings, soaring over the group so low his wings almost brushed the
ground.

The blast of wind knocked the smallest to the ground, Tythanir left
dangling in his father’s grasp as Imrik’s hair and cloak swirled and the
air raged around him, reverberating with a crack as the dragon flapped
his wings once and climbed away.

Imrik could feel his son trembling and turned, helping him back to his
feet. For a moment, tears glistened in Tythanir’s eyes, his whole body
shaking, his lips bloodied from being bitten.

Recovering from the shock the children’s laughter came again, tinged
with a mania of relief and joined with the deeper chuckles of their
fathers. Above, Maedrethnir tipped a wing and turned sharply, descending
to land a short distance away, rock shards sent flying as his claws
scraped across the mound.

‘A fine display!’ Dorien called out. He looked at the young elves, who
stood with wide-eyed awe, staring at the dragon just a stone’s throw
away. ‘We thought it time you met the future lords of Caledor.’

Introductions were made, each child brought forwards to bow before
Maedrethnir. As he greeted each, the dragon’s breath ruffled hair,
causing some to laugh while others retreated quickly, still struck dumb
by the experience.

Lastly, Tythanir was presented.

‘The line of Caledor himself,’ said Imrik. ‘My son, Tythanir.’

The boy stepped towards the dragon and placed his hands on his hips
defiantly. He stared up into the monstrous face of Maedrethnir, his
scowling countenance reflected in the dragon’s large eyes.

‘That was a very bad thing to do,’ scolded Tythanir. ‘You frightened
every­body. You should say sorry!’

Maedrethnir drew back and looked at Imrik, head cocked to one side in
surprise.

‘That is no way to pay respect,’ snapped Imrik.

‘This old creature should bow to us,’ said Tythanir. ‘Caledor was the
Dragon­tamer. We are their masters.’

‘You are wrong, boy,’ said Dorien. ‘Though Caledor first tamed the wild
dragons, they are now our trusted allies. They are the source of our
kingdom’s power and you will show them respect.’

‘Bow and say you are sorry,’ said Imrik.

‘What if I don’t?’ replied Tythanir.

‘I will crush you,’ said Maedrethnir, lunging at the boy, one clawed
foot held above Tythanir’s head. The boy flinched only a little, and
despite his annoyance at Tythanir’s ill manners, Imrik felt some respect
for the young elf standing his ground against the dragon.

‘That would be silly,’ said Tythanir. ‘You are not going to crush me.’

Maedrethnir hesitated and looked at Imrik again, unsure what to do.

‘If you do not bow, you will be punished,’ said Imrik.

‘But it’s not fair,’ said Tythanir, crossing his arms as he turned to
his father. ‘I am a dragon prince!’

‘You have had good warning,’ said Imrik. He nodded to Maedrethnir.

The dragon swung its tail, the tip cracking against Tythanir’s backside
with just enough force to propel him to the ground. A wail erupted from
the boy as he clutched his hands to the offended area.

‘His mother will hear of this,’ Dorien whispered in Imrik’s ear. ‘She
will not take it kindly.’

‘She can take it whichever way she wants,’ Imrik replied. ‘The boy was
rude and he was punished. She spoils him sometimes.’

‘Have you learnt the lesson, young elf?’ said Maedrethnir, raising the
tip of his tail threateningly.

‘Yes,’ sobbed Tythanir as his father helped the boy to his feet and
turned him towards the dragon. He bobbed a quick bow. ‘I am sorry.’

‘Apology accepted,’ said the dragon, lowering his tail.

The boy stepped back and sheltered behind his father, eyeing the dragon
carefully.

‘Are any of your kin willing to join us?’ asked Thyrinor. ‘We are
honoured by your presence but would like to introduce the young ones to
some of the others.’

‘They do not wish to be disturbed,’ replied Maedrethnir. ‘They sleep and
will not rouse for infants, even the sons of Caledor’s greatest.’

‘A shame,’ said Imrik. ‘It has been a long while since you have graced
us in number.’

‘And perhaps we will never again,’ said the dragon. It was impossible to
tell Maedrethnir’s thoughts from his reptilian expression but Imrik
thought he detected a note of resignation in his words. ‘For a long time
we have concerned ourselves with the lives of elves, but our interest is
dwindling. The peace of slumber beckons strongly.’

‘We will not disturb you longer,’ said Dorien, bowing to Maedrethnir.
‘Pass our regards to your kin.’

Maedrethnir lowered his head on his long neck and looked at each of the
children in turn, baring fangs as long as each was tall.

‘Learn your lessons well, and pay due respect,’ said the dragon. ‘If you
do, one day you may be worthy of riding upon the back of one of my
brothers or sisters.’

There were nods and solemn promises from the boys. With a growl of
contentment, Maedrethnir backed away across the mound and launched into
the air. He flew a few loops, gouting fire, before gliding back into the
cave from which he had emerged.

Imrik sent Tythanir to the others and gestured for Dorien to join him.

‘You look concerned, brother,’ said Dorien.

‘I think Maedrethnir lied,’ said Imrik. ‘I fear he is the last of the
dragons awake.’

‘Let us hope not,’ replied Dorien. ‘It is the dread of the dragons that
keeps Caledor safe. If it was known that the power of the mountains is
spent, it would go ill for our kingdom.’

‘Yes it would,’ said Imrik, heart heavy. ‘Say nothing of this, not even
to Caledrian. He does not need any other worries at the moment.’

‘As you say, brother,’ said Dorien. ‘The day when the dragon princes
cannot fly forth will be the day the kingdom falls.’

‘Not while I live,’ growled Imrik. He patted the sword at his waist.
‘The dragons are not our only weapons.’

A few days after he had returned to Tor Caled, Imrik was called to the
great hall of the palace by Caledrian. He arrived to find his brothers
and cousin already waiting for him, along with several others of the
city’s princes.

Imrik’s eye was drawn to a falcon perched on the back of his brother’s
throne, as placid as a songbird. Caledrian held something in his hand
and there was a small velvet bag cast upon the seat of the throne.

‘Your message seemed urgent,’ said Imrik as he strode along the hall.
‘What do you have there?’

‘I thought it best if we saw this together,’ said Caledrian. ‘It was
sent by Thyriol of Saphery.’

Caledrian opened his palm to reveal a shining yellow crystal, a small
rune etched into each of its many faces. The prince held out his hand,
the crystal resting upon it, and read a short incantation from the note
that had accompanied it. Imrik felt the flutter of magic in the air,
emanating from the stone.

The light of the crystal brightened, growing to a golden shimmer that
dappled the floor, walls and ceiling of the hall. Like sunlight
streaming through a window, the gleam rippled and moved, darker shapes
forming within it. Imrik could sense the magic on his flesh even as the
light touched upon his eyes. He noticed the light cast no shadow in the
chamber.

A figure resolved from the shifting light, a wavering image of Thyriol
standing with arms folded, hands tucked into the sleeves of his robe.
Details of the scene behind him could be just about discerned; marching
troops and a high tower that disappeared into vagueness. The ghostly
figure stared straight ahead, looking at a nondescript stretch of wall
behind Caledrian.

‘Felicitations, princes,’ said the image, the voice seeming to originate
in the air itself, leaving no echo. ‘I have sped these tidings to you
for I have important news from the north. Prince Malekith has assaulted
Anlec and been victorious. He has taken Morathi prisoner and reclaimed
the rule of Nagarythe.’

The apparition paused and looked away for a moment. He seemed to mutter
something and then returned his attention ahead.

‘We are keeping the capture of Morathi secret, lest her followers
attempt some attack to rescue her,’ the mage continued. ‘With a small
guard, Malekith escorts his mother to Tor Anroc to face the justice of
the Phoenix King. Given the grievances of many against her, Malekith has
extended invitation to each kingdom to send a single representative to
Bel Shanaar’s court to learn of the Phoenix King’s judgement. Ride
swiftly.’

The image wavered and vanished, leaving a faintest glow for a moment
within the crystal before that also disappeared. Caledrian closed his
fist around it.

‘Malekith invites us to Tor Anroc?’ Thyrinor was the first to speak,
incredulity raising the pitch of his voice. ‘He acts if he were Phoenix
King, not Bel Shanaar.’

‘Malekith has equal accusations to answer,’ said Dorien. ‘His neglect of
his kingdom for fifty years has brought misery to many.’

‘I will go,’ said Imrik.

‘You offer?’ said Caledrian, unable to hide his surprise. ‘You assume I
will ask.’

‘You would,’ said Imrik, sighing at the inevitability. ‘Deny it.’

Caledrian looked embarrassed for a moment and then nodded.

‘I cannot,’ he said. ‘Malekith will ask for clemency for his mother. You
must ensure Morathi does not receive it.’

‘I will,’ said Imrik. ‘There is blood on her hands.’

The palace of Tor Anroc had continued to expand even in the short time
since Imrik had last visited. No doubt helped by the gifts of grateful
princes, Bel Shanaar had lavishly furnished his chambers. White gold was
inlaid on the flags of the floor and no fewer than six hundred
tapestries covered the walls of the hall above the benches, each
picturing a scene from Ulthuan and lands across the world. It irked
Imrik to recognise many from his own conquests, hanging in the palace of
an elf that had not lifted a sword to claim the places depicted. From
silver chains hanging from the ceiling the chamber was illuminated by
dozens of lanterns of dwarfish design, each a subtly different hue of
pale yellow.

Bel Shanaar sat on his throne, with Bathinair, Elodhir, Finudel and
Charill of Chrace in attendance. Unseen but close at hand, Thyriol stood
ready to counter any enchantments Morathi might cast. The princes of the
other realms had refused to come, fearing that despite Bel Shanaar’s
precautions the Queen of Nagarythe would still unleash some last
spiteful act rather than face her judgement. Imrik stood with the other
princes, waiting for Malekith to make his appearance. There was no
conversation, and no audience had been allowed onto the benches.

The Caledorian could feel the trepidation of the others, but even his
grave misgivings did not extend so far as to believe this was some trap
to ensnare them. Over the past decades, Morathi had been given plenty of
opportunity to see the Phoenix King if she planned any physical malice
towards him.

The doors opened and all turned their gaze down the hall. Malekith
entered with long strides, still clad in his golden armour, a hooded
figure cloaked in black following a step behind.

‘My king and princes,’ said the Naggarothi ruler. ‘Today is a portentous
occasion, for as I vowed, I bring before you the witch-queen of
Nagarythe, my mother, Morathi.’

Morathi cast off her cloak and stood before her judges. She was dressed
in a flowing blue gown, her hair bound up with shining sapphires, her
eyelids painted with azure powder. She appeared every inch the defeated
queen, dejected but unrepentant.

‘You stand before us accused of raising war against the office of the
Phoenix King and the realms of the princes of Ulthuan,’ Bel Shanaar
said.

‘It was not I that launched attacks against the border of Nagarythe,’
Morathi replied calmly. Her gaze met the eyes of the princes in turn.
Imrik studied the others: Bathinair met her stare coolly, Elodhir
flinched, while Finudel and Charill looked away in discomfort. Imrik
stared back, making no attempt to hide his distaste. ‘It was not the
Naggarothi who sought battle with the other kingdoms.’

‘You would portray yourself as the victim?’ laughed Finudel. ‘To us?’

‘No ruler of Nagarythe is a victim,’ replied Morathi.

‘Do you deny that the cults of excess and luxury that blight our realm
owe their loyalty to you?’ said Bel Shanaar.

‘They owe their loyalty to the cytharai,’ said Morathi. ‘You can no more
prosecute me for the existence of the cults than you can impeach
yourself for assuming the mantle of Asuryan’s chosen.’

‘Will you at least admit to thoughts of treason?’ said Elodhir. ‘Did you
not plot against my father and seek to undermine him?’

‘I hold no position in higher regard than that of the Phoenix King,’
Morathi said, her eyes fixed upon Bel Shanaar. ‘I spoke my mind at the
First Council and others chose to ignore my wisdom. My loyalty is to
Ulthuan and the prosperity and strength of her people. I do not change
my opinions on a whim and my reservations have not been allayed.’

‘She is a viper,’ snarled Imrik, revolted by her professed innocence.
‘She cannot be allowed to live.’

Morathi laughed, a scornful sound that reverberated menacingly around
the hall.

‘Who wishes to be known as the elf who slew Aenarion’s queen?’ the
seeress said. ‘Which of the mighty princes gathered here would claim
that accolade?’

‘I will,’ said Imrik, his hand straying to the silver hilt of Lathrain
at his waist.

‘I cannot condone this,’ said Malekith, stepping protectively in front
of his mother.

Imrik tensed, but stayed his hand. He watched Malekith intently, alert
for any violence.

‘You swore to me in this very chamber that you would be ready for such
an end,’ said Bel Shanaar. ‘Now you renege on your oath?’

‘No more than I renege on the oath that I would show mercy to all those
who asked for it,’ said Malekith. ‘My mother need not die. Her blood
would serve no purpose but to sate the Caledorian’s vengeful thirst.’

‘It is justice, not revenge,’ said Imrik. He was reminded of Carathril’s
tale of the mass suicide of Aeltherin’s cult. ‘Blood for blood.’

‘If she lives, she is a threat,’ said Finudel. ‘She cannot be trusted.’

‘I cannot decide this,’ said Malekith, addressing the princes. He then
turned his eyes upon the Phoenix King. ‘I will not decide this. Let Bel
Shanaar decide. The will of the Phoenix King is stronger than the oath
of a prince. Is the word of the son of Aenarion to be as nothing, or is
there yet nobility enough in the princes of Ulthuan to show compassion
and forgiveness?’

Bel Shanaar gave Malekith a sour look, knowing that all that had passed
here would be reported by means both open and secret to the people of
Ulthuan. Imrik thought that to let Morathi live would be weakness, but
he remained silent. He had voiced his opinion on the matter, but the
decision rested with the Phoenix King.

‘Morathi cannot go unpunished for her crimes,’ Bel Shanaar said slowly.
‘There is no place to which I can exile her, for she would return more
bitter and ambitious than before. As she enslaved others, so shall she
forfeit her freedom. She shall stay in rooms within this palace, under
guard night and day. None shall see her save with my permission.’

The Phoenix King stood and glared at the sorceress.

‘Know this, Morathi,’ said Bel Shanaar. ‘The sentence of death is not
wholly commuted. You live by my will. If ever you cross me or seek to
harm my rule, you will be slain, without trial or representation. Your
word is of no value and so I hold your life hostage to your good
behaviour. Accept these terms or accept your death.’

Morathi looked at the gathered princes and saw nothing but hatred in
their faces, save for Malekith’s which was expressionless. Imrik sneered
at her glance, wishing to be away from her presence. Even now the stench
of sorcery hung about the former queen,

‘Your demands are not unreasonable, Bel Shanaar of Tiranoc,’ she said
eventually. ‘I consent to be your prisoner.’

Following the imprisonment of Morathi, a measure of peace was restored.
With Malekith again in control of Nagarythe and the support of the
pleasure cults curtailed the unrest and violence that had marred Ulthuan
subsided. As he had wished, Imrik spent the years in Tor Caled with his
wife and son, watching Tythanir grow to become a proud and able youth.
The time did not heal the growing estrangement between Imrik and
Anatheria; it appeared that as much as she had chastised her husband for
his long absences, his continued presence was just as demanding for her.

Despite this, Imrik was content, if not altogether happy. After a life
of war and duty, he could not relax wholly and would often visit
Maedrethnir to speak of old battles and conquests. The ancient dragon
confirmed what Imrik had suspected; the others of his kind were
unwilling to leave their lairs and soon he too would join them in the
long sleep.

Imrik also found time to travel, to see parts of Ulthuan he had not
visited since his childhood. Thyriol hosted Imrik and his family for a
season in the floating city of Saphethion. Over a summer, Imrik was the
guest of Prince Charill in mountainous Chrace, where he hunted the wild
monsters of the Annulii with his distant cousin, Koradrel. The two
became friends, Koradrel happy with Imrik’s quiet nature and of a
taciturn disposition himself.

Throughout, Imrik set about to distract himself from the long pass of
days, and came to understand, if not sympathise with, the malaise of
boredom that had drawn so many to the cults of the undergods. He even
considered returning to the colonies, but on sending letters to his
allies in Elthin Arvan learned that there was little challenge remaining
for one of his skills.

After more than two decades, the harmony of Ulthuan was shattered again.
