
THREE 

Slaughter at Athel Toralien

It was not long before companies of archers lined the outer wall, and
after a few shambolic attacks the orcs soon learned that to approach
within a hundred paces was to face certain death. The greenskins tried
as best they could to redirect the fall of their catapult shots, but
scored only one lucky hit against the rampart while the rest of their
fire landed well short or flew over the city into the harbour beyond.

Malekith arrayed his spearmen by companies, near the westernmost of the
three gates, and commanded his captains to drive forwards into the
enemy. With a fanfare of clarions, the gates were opened and the host of
Nagarythe marched forth. At the orders of their commanders, the
Naggarothi stepped out in unison, filing through the gate five abreast,
their spear tips shining in the light of the orcs’ fires. A wall of
black shields went before them, and against this barrier the wild arrow
shots of the orcs never found a mark.

The vanguard halted some fifty paces from the gateway as the orcs began
to gather into rude mobs, clamouring about their haggard standards, the
largest of their kind bullying, bellowing and punching their underlings
into a rough semblance of order. The main part of the elven column
parted to the left and right, and took up positions in sloping echelon
beside the vanguard, to form an unbroken wall of spear points that ran
from the north-east to the south-west, one flank guarded by the wall,
the other by the sea.

Behind them, half of the archers ran swiftly down from the walls and
took up positions from which they could shoot over the heads of their
kinsmen. Malekith watched this from the gatehouse, Lorhir and a few
other worthy citizens of the prince’s new realm beside him.

‘We still have a company or more of warriors, and we would not have it
said that we did not fight for the future of our city,’ said Lorhir.

‘I do not doubt your gallantry,’ said Malekith. ‘But watch, and you will
see why no elf may stand in the line of Nagarythe without first passing
a hundred years training upon the fields of Anlec.’

The prince signalled to a hornblower stood with the group, and the
herald raised his instrument and played out three rising notes. Almost
instantly, the battleline of the elves shifted position.

With seamless precision, the companies on the right, nearest the wall,
turned and marched northwards, each angled to protect the flank of the
company in front. Through the gap thus created came the archers, who
spread out into a long line three deep. The shouted commands of their
captains still ringing from the wall, the archers let loose a single
storm of arrows that sailed high into the air as a dark cloud. The shots
fell steeply into the gathering orcs, slaying and wounding hundreds in a
single devastating volley.

No sooner had the first salvo hit its mark than another was in the air,
and eight more times this was repeated, an unending stream of arrowheads
that pierced armour and green flesh and left piles of orcish dead
littering the forest and road.

Many of the orcs fled from this ceaseless death, but the largest and
fiercest were goaded into action and ran towards the elven line,
chanting and screaming. As they approached, their charge gathered more
momentum and those orcs that were fleeing turned back and rejoined the
attack, bolstered by the headlong assault of their betters. When the
green horde was no more than a hundred paces from the elves, the archers
let loose a flurry of shots into their ranks, but the onslaught did not
cease or even pause.

Malekith gave another signal to his musician and the hornblower let out
a long, pealing blast that dipped in pitch. The orcs were no more than
fifty paces away, but the lightly armed archers seemed unperturbed. They
split their line, every second archer stepping to his right. Through
these channels, the spearmen swiftly advanced and then reformed, scant
moments before the orcish attack hit.

With a crash that could be heard upon the walls, the orcs hurled
themselves at the Naggarothi. Spear pierced green hide and heavy blade
cut through shaft and shield as the orcs tried to batter their way
through the line with brute strength and impetus. Here and there, elves
fell to the sheer ferocity of the assault, but other elves quickly
stepped forwards and closed these gaps, leaving no path through the
shield barrier. All along the line, spears were drawn back and thrust
forwards in a rhythmic pulse, undulating from south to north in a wave
that left hundreds of orcish dead.

Against the weight of the orcs’ numbers, the elves slowly began to give
ground, steadily and calmly taking steps backwards towards the wall as
the fighting slowed and then renewed. It was then that Lorhir realised
what was happening.

‘You are drawing them closer to the walls,’ he said in amazement.

‘Now see the true strength of the Naggarothi host,’ Malekith told his
companions.

Two short horn blasts followed by a long piercing note then rang out and
the archers still upon the walls moved to the battlements. From here
they could fire directly into the orc mass, their shots passing no more
than a hand’s breadth from their comrades, yet loosed with such accuracy
that the Naggarothi were never in danger of hitting their own warriors.

Between the spearpoints and arrows of the Nagarythe host, the orcs’
enthusiasm for fighting began to waver. Their leaders bellowed and beat
those that turned away from the melee, and took up great swords and axes
and hewed at the elves as a treecutter might hack at a log. Encouraged
by the spirit of the orcish chieftains, the green horde kept fighting.

The crews of the catapults now tried to direct their fire upon the
spearmen, and scored a few hits that opened up holes in the elvish line.
However, the archers poured arrows into these breaches to hold back the
orcs, while the spearmen reformed again and again to keep the companies
steady. Boulders and flaming balls of tar-covered wood fell more upon
the orcs than the elves, to the perverse delight of the war engines’
crews. It seemed that they cared not who died beneath the crushing shots
of their engines.

Now the greater part of the besieging army had been drawn forwards onto
the spears of the elves, and Malekith enacted the final part of his
strategy.

Another signal from the horn, and the northern gate opened allowing the
knights of Nagarythe to ride forth. Pennants streamed from their lance
tips, and silver and black gonfalons fluttered from a dozen standard
poles as the thousand knights charged the greenskins. With the war cries
of Nagarythe upon their lips and the horn blasts of their musicians
ringing around them, the knights of Anlec carved a swathe into the flank
of the army pressed up against the elven line.

The orcs were defenceless against this manoeuvre, unable to turn to face
this new threat without exposing themselves to the spears of the
infantry. Spitted upon lances and trampled beneath the hooves of the
knights’ steeds, hundreds of orcs died in the first impact of the
charge. The momentum of the knights carried them forwards into the midst
of the orcish host, and the infantry pressed forwards again to ensure
that the noble cavalry were not surrounded.

Lorhir gave a cry of dismay and pointed eastwards. Not all of the orcs
had yet joined the fray and a group of several hundred now marched
swiftly from the far end of the wall. They sprinted eagerly towards the
battle and would come up behind the knights, or could otherwise turn
through the open gate of the city.

‘We must intercept them!’ said Lorhir, turning to run towards the steps,
but Malekith grabbed him by the arm and halted him.

‘I said that you are not yet part of the Naggarothi army,’ the prince
said sternly.

‘But you have no other reserve!’ cried Lorhir. ‘Archers alone will not
deter them, who else will hold them back?’

‘I will,’ said Malekith. ‘If each of my warriors is worth five of yours,
then I am worth at least one hundred!’

With that, Malekith turned and sprinted eastwards along the wall. As he
ran, he began to chant quickly under his breath, drawing the winds of
magic towards himself. He could feel them churning in the air around
him, heaving through the stone beneath his booted feet. Though not as
dense as the magic condensed by the vortex in Ulthuan, the strands of
mystical energy that swirled across the whole world blew strongly here,
in the northern parts. Malekith was filled with exhilaration as his
sorcery grew in power, suffusing his body with its boundless energy.

With a shout, Malekith drew his sword and bounded up to the rampart
before leaping from the wall. Silver wings of magic sprang shimmering
from his shoulders and carried the prince aloft.

As he sped swiftly towards the orc reinforcements, Malekith’s sword
glowed with magical power, a piercing blue light burning from its blade.
The light spread until it enveloped the whole of the prince so that he
became a gleaming thunderbolt of energy.

The orcs stumbled and gazed upwards in amazement and awe as Malekith
sped down towards them, one fist held in front of him, his sword swept
back ready to strike.

Like a meteor, the prince of Nagarythe crashed into the orcs in an
explosion of blue flame that sent burning greenskins and steaming earth
flying for many yards in every direction. Dozens more were hurled from
their feet as magical flames licked at their flesh. Smoke drifted up
from the crater, revealing the prince crouched on one knee. With another
shout he sprang forwards, sword in front of him like a lance point, and
the blade slid through the chest of the nearest greenskin.

More out of instinct and natural savagery than bravery, the closest orcs
charged towards the prince, their weapons upraised, guttural shouts
tearing the air. The prince moved in a blur of speed and motion, slicing
and thrusting with his gleaming blade, felling an orc with every
heartbeat. Within a few moments, all but one of the orcs were running
from the wrath of Malekith.

The creature that remained was a gigantic beast, almost twice as tall as
the elven prince. It was clad from head to toe in thick plates of armour
painted with dried blood. It regarded Malekith with small, brutish red
eyes and flexed its clawed fingers on the haft of the great
double-headed axe it carried.

With a grunt it hefted the axe above its head and swung down the blade
with terrifying force. Malekith stepped nimbly aside at the last moment,
and the axe bit deep into the ground where a moment before the prince
had been stood. His sword held idly by his side, Malekith took a few
steps to his right as the orc warlord ripped its axe free from the earth
in a shower of bloody clods.

With a bellow of anger, the orc swung its axe two-handed, but Malekith
easily ducked the wild blow and cut his sword across the shoulder of the
warlord, sending shards of armour spinning away. As the orc recovered
its balance, the lord of Nagarythe spun around behind it and slashed at
its legs, drawing his blade across both thighs, hamstringing the
monstrous greenskin.

Falling to its knees, it gave a roar of rage and lunged wildly towards
the prince, who stepped backwards as the orc fell flat upon its face.
With a deft thrust, Malekith sheared his blade through the exposed
shoulder of
the orc, and then brought the edge of the blade down upon the wrist of
the other arm. The orc howled as its axe fell to the ground, one fist
still gripped around its rough wooden haft.

Malekith paced back and forth, eyeing the orc with a contemptuous smile.
Helpless now, the orc could do nothing but shout and froth at the mouth.
With a flourish, Malekith whipped his sword around for a final time and
the orc’s head spun into the air with a fountain of blood. It fell to
the hard earth at Malekith’s feet in a spatter of gore. The prince dug
the point of his gleaming blade into the still-helmeted skull and lifted
it from the ground for all to see.

The remnants of the orcs were fleeing through the woods, abandoning
their war machines, and a great roar of triumph rose up from the ranks
of the Naggarothi. Thrice they shouted the name of their prince, each
time lifting up their spears and bows and lances in salute. As the
knights made sport of chasing the fleeing greenskins through the forest,
Malekith returned to his city.

When news reached Ulthuan of Malekith’s actions, there was much debate
and confusion. Prince Aneron travelled to Tor Anroc with many allies and
demanded audience with the Phoenix King. The benches around the throne
chamber were thronged with nobles and courtiers, and the air throbbed
with heated discussion.

A respectful hush fell upon the entry of the Phoenix King, who paced
from the great double doors, his long cloak of feathers sweeping across
the marble floor. As soon as Bel Shanaar was seated upon his throne
Aneron stepped forwards and gave a perfunctory bow.

‘Malekith must be punished!’ Aneron rasped.

‘Punished for what crime?’ Bel Shanaar asked calmly.

‘He has seized my lands, sovereign territory of Eataine,’ Aneron said.
‘The city of Athel Toralien was founded by my father and passed to me.
This Naggarothi villain has no rightful claim.’

‘If you allow Malekith to keep his stolen prize, you set a terrifying
pre­cedent,’ added Galdhiran, one of the lesser Eataine princes. ‘If we
can seize each other’s lands and claim right of conquest, then what is
to prevent us all from doing as we please? Only Nagarythe and Caledor,
with their large armies, are served in this manner. You must end this
before it begins!’

There were boos and scoffing cries from some amongst the court, and
cries of encouragement from others. The tumult continued for some time
until Bel Shanaar raised his hand and silence once again descended.

‘Are there any that speak on behalf of Malekith?’ asked the Phoenix
King.

There was a gentle cough, and all eyes turned to the uppermost tier of
benches to the Phoenix King’s left. Morathi sat amidst a small
entourage
of grim Naggarothi. She stood languidly and paced slowly down the steps
to the floor of the audience hall, her gown billowing behind her like
golden dawn clouds.

‘I speak not for Malekith, nor Nagarythe,’ the seeress said, her voice
gentle yet strong. ‘I speak for the people of Athel Toralien, left to
die in their homes at the hands of the savage orcs by Prince Aneron.’

‘There was not room–’ began Aneron.

‘Be silent,’ snarled Morathi, and the Eataine prince stuttered into
acquiescence. ‘It is not your place to interrupt your betters when they
are speaking. Prince Aneron, and the realm of Eataine, forfeited all
right to Athel Toralien when they abandoned their duties to protect
their citizens.’

Morathi had been speaking to Bel Shanaar but now turned to address the
chamber as a whole.

‘Prince Malekith usurped no throne,’ she declared. ‘No blade was lifted
against the warriors of Eataine, no blood of fellow elf spilt. The lord
of Nagarythe conquered an abandoned city in the grip of the orcs. He
saved hundreds of elven lives by his action. That those lands had once
belonged to Prince Aneron is of no bearing. If we are to argue ownership
in that manner, then perhaps we should ask a representative of the orcs
to attend, for they lived there long before we arrived!’

Laughter rippled around the hall at Morathi’s suggestion, for Ulthuan
had been awash for years with tales of the orcs’ brutality and
stupidity. The former queen of Ulthuan turned her attention back to the
Phoenix King.

‘No wrong has been done here,’ she said. ‘Malekith asks not for reward
nor praise, but the simple right to keep what he has fought to claim.
Would you deny him that right?’

A greater part of the assembled nobles applauded Morathi’s argument. Bel
Shanaar considered his position. A large number of Ulthuan’s citizenry
even now lauded the prince and his heroic defence of the colony city.
Prince Aneron had never enjoyed much popularity, even amongst the elves
of Eataine, and many enjoyed the snub implicit in Malekith’s annexation.
The Phoenix King had heard jeers from a large crowd of elves outside the
palace during the arrival of Aneron in Tor Anroc.

‘I have here one other piece of evidence,’ Morathi added.

She gestured to her retainers and one strode down from the benches and
passed her a rolled-up parchment. Morathi handed this to Bel Shanaar,
who did not open it but merely looked inquiringly at the Naggarothi
seeress.

‘This is a letter from the people of Athel Toralien,’ she said. ‘It is
signed by all four hundred and seventy-six survivors of the orc attack.
They swear loyalty unconditionally to Prince Malekith. Further, they
invite their kith and kin to join them in the new lands and are
confident that under Naggarothi protection the city will prosper
greatly. So, do not simply listen to my opinion, but hearken to the
views of the city’s people.’

At this there were some cheers from the watching courtiers and princes.
Aneron scowled as even some of his fellow Eataine joined in the mockery.

‘It appears that a precedent is indeed set,’ said Bel Shanaar when the
clamour had quietened. ‘A prince who quits his property and leaves it
unprotected abandons all rights to ownership. We were raised to our
station for protecting Ulthuan alongside Aenarion, and we must maintain
our rule as guardians of her people. Thus, I make this proclamation.
Prince Aneron deserted his lands and his subjects. As Phoenix King, I
consider Athel Toralien to have been an abandoned land, and thus
suitable for reconquest by any prince. Prince Malekith has established
his rightful claim and that shall be recognised by this court. Let this
be a warning to all who seek the riches and power available for those in
the new world. Go forth in the name of Ulthuan, but never forget your
duties.’

Thus was Prince Aneron shamed. With little support for his position, the
Eataine prince sheepishly quit the shores of Ulthuan and sailed west to
the jungle-crowded coasts of Lustria. Malekith was invested as ruler of
Athel Toralien and his conquest of the colonies began in earnest.
