
FIVE 

Clothed in Darkness

It seemed to Alith that the winter wind was more bitter than any that
had come before. It brought swirls of snow down from the mountains, but
it was not just the cold that clawed at Alith, it was the feeling of
being trapped.

From the high mountain path, the young Anar looked south and west across
Elanardris. He could see the manse, the gardens swathed in snow. Smoke
drifted from the house’s three chimneys, billowing southwards on the
stern breeze. Beyond the manse, the meadows and hills were laid out in a
pattern of dark walls and hedges cutting through the white blanket. The
white-walled farmhouses and guard towers could barely be seen, located
only through their brightly tiled roofs and the telltale wisps of smoke.

Beyond that, almost at the horizon, the hills of Elanardris gave way to
the undulating plains of central Nagarythe. Here the cloud-swathed sky
was shrouded by a darker smog, the fires of a huge encampment. The army
of Anlec squatted like a brooding black beast on the borders of the
Anars’ realm, waiting for the snows to cease. At this distance, and
through the snow flurries brought down from the north, even the keen
eyes of Alith could make out little detail. The enemy camp spread like a
stain over the white hills, lines of black shapes that stretched from
north to south.

The druchii, his grandfather had called them: dark elves. They had
turned from the light of Aenarion and the lord of gods, Asuryan. Eoloran
no longer regarded them as Naggarothi. They were traitors to the Phoenix
Throne and betrayers of Malekith, their rightful prince.

Their foes thought the same of the Anars. They considered Eoloran’s
refusal to acknowledge the authority of Anlec as a slight against
Aenarion’s memory. Alith knew this from the interrogations of prisoners
taken after the last battle, when the druchii had attempted to force
their way up into the hills. It had been a foolish, desperate assault
before Enagruir tightened her wintry grip on Nagarythe. The druchii had
been stopped by Eoloran and Eothlir – again, for there had been three
such attacks since Malekith had returned – and the dark elves were
content to wait for conditions to improve and their numbers to swell
further.

Alith’s loneliness had been increased by the lack of contact with
Ashniel. Far from giving him the triumphant homecoming Alith had
imagined, Ashniel had been moved by her father to one of the lord’s
castles higher in the mountains, far from the enemy. Occasionally Alith
would receive a short letter from her, in which she professed her regret
at their parting and her wish that they would see each other again soon.
Alith had little enough time to reply to these letters, for he spent
most days up in the mountains keeping watch on the druchii host. Try as
he might, he had little leisure to spend composing poetry and
declarations of love and knew that such missives as he managed to send
were brusque and clumsy.

As these morose thoughts occupied Alith, a lionhawk, her plumage white
to camouflage her against the snows, swept down with a shriek from the
mountain clouds. She circled around Alith and the group of scouts around
him, and then settled on his wrist. Alith listened to her chirping and
cawing for a moment, nodding in understanding as the bird relayed the
message from Anadriel.

He stroked the lionhawk’s head in thanks before raising his arm and
allowing her to fly back to her nest. She would come again when called.

‘A rider, on the Eithrin Ridge,’ Alith announced to the twenty elves
accompanying him. They were all dressed in robes of white trimmed with
dark bear fur, enchanted with the greatest blessings of stealth and
secrecy known to the dedicants of Kurnous. Even this close, it was hard
for Alith to see where elf stopped and snow began. ‘Anadriel is moving
in from the south-west; we shall intercept this spy from the north-east.
Quickly now, we don’t want Anadriel to steal our glory!’

Many times the scouts had intercepted druchii warriors attempting to spy
upon the Anars’ army and defences. As far as Alith knew, not a single
one had escaped to take news back to the druchii commanders. This one
was different. It was obvious that nobody would be able to cross the
Eithrin Ridge unobserved, especially on horseback, and so the druchii
had concentrated their forces to the west and north. Alith’s instinct
told him that this uninvited visitor was not a spy, and wondered if
Elthyrior had finally been caught out.

However, there was no solid reason to suspect that this stranger was the
raven herald. Alith had heard nothing from Elthyrior since their parting
before the battle with the Khainites, and guessed only that he had
reached Ealith safely and persuaded Malekith to send Aneltain south.
Elthyrior could be dead, a captive of Morathi, or hidden in whatever
lairs the raven heralds used to avoid the attention of their enemies.

As wintry spirits, the scouts made their way across the snow-covered
rock, heading towards Eithrin Ridge. They flitted through the sparse
trees, deftly running across the snow, moving sure-footedly over patches
of sun-glittering ice. As they made their way down the mountainside, the
shadow of Anil Narthain fell upon them and the air grew colder. Alith
blew on his fingers as he jogged, keeping them warm so that he would not
fumble with his bow if the stranger proved to be a threat. The snow
crunching underfoot, Alith and the other archers ghosted southwards,
eyes fixed ahead for any sight of the interloper.

It was mid-morning before Alith crested a rise, coming out into the
winter sun, and saw the intruder. It was not Elthyrior. Although the elf
was some distance away, Alith could see that he was shorter than the
raven herald, and he was dressed in a grey cloak beneath which could be
seen flashes of golden scale and white robes. The intruder was leading
his horse, striding across a long snowdrift that had built up on the
flanks of the Eithrin Ridge. Alith signalled wordlessly to the others to
spread out and circle to the east to come at the stranger from several
directions.

For a short while Alith lost sight of his quarry as the rocky slope
dipped sharply and then rose up again. Pulling himself up the steep wall
of the snow-filled crag, Alith caught sight of the stranger again,
standing some three hundred paces away. He had stopped and was looking
around quickly, and for a moment Alith wondered if the intruder had
spied one of the scouts.

A keening cry overhead announced the presence of Anadriel’s lionhawk,
and only moments later six figures that before had been invisible stood
up. Standing in a semi-circle some hundred paces from the stranger, they
were dressed in the same style of clothes as Alith’s warriors and had
arrows bent to their bows. Alith rose to his feet and dashed across the
snow, fitting an arrow to his bowstring.

The stranger had raised his arms and thrown back his cloak, revealing no
scabbard at his waist, only the long knife that any traveller in the
wilds would be sensible to carry. He was exchanging words with Anadriel
and Alith caught the end of a reply.

‘…need to speak to Eoloran and Eothlir,’ the stranger called out.

Anadriel saw Alith and his scouts approaching from the opposite
direction and lifted a hand in brief greeting. The stranger turned
slowly to look at Alith. His expression was calm, confident even. He
pulled back his hood with deliberate slowness, revealing reddish-yellow
hair tied with golden thread. He was certainly not from Nagarythe.

‘Name yourself,’ Alith called out, stopping some fifty paces from the
elf, his arrow aimed at the stranger’s chest.

‘I am Calabrian of Tor Andris,’ the elf replied. ‘I bear messages for
the lord of the Anars.’

‘We know the manner of messages that Morathi would send,’ said Alith. He
lifted up his bow and arrow. ‘You know the manner of our replies.’

‘I come not from Anlec, but Tor Anroc,’ Calabrian said patiently. ‘I
carry missives from Prince Malekith.’

‘And what proof do you offer?’ demanded Alith.

‘If you would allow me to approach, I will show you.’

Alith relaxed his arm and brought down his bow. Letting go of the arrow,
he waved for Calabrian to come closer. The messenger lowered his arms
and stepped up to his horse. He drew something from his saddlebags and
held it up. It was a scroll case. Calabrian walked purposefully,
glancing at the other scouts, the case still held clearly in view. Alith
signalled for him to stop a few paces away and stepped up to him with an
outstretched hand. Calabrian placed the casing in Alith’s grip and took
a few paces further back, his eyes unwavering from Alith’s face.

The seal on the case was certainly that of Prince Malekith, and was
unbroken. It was light, and so Alith doubted it contained a concealed
weapon. Just to be sure, he tucked the case into his belt rather than
return it.

‘That message is for Eoloran Anar alone,’ said Calabrian, stepping
forwards. In an instant, Alith was ready, bowstring taut, the arrow
pointed towards Calabrian’s heart. The messenger stopped. ‘I have other
assurances, but only Eoloran will understand them.’

‘I am Alith Anar, grandson of the lord you seek,’ Alith assured the
other elf. ‘I will take you to the manse and there you will meet Eoloran
Anar. Be warned, though, that if your claim proves to be false, you will
not be treated well. If you wish, we will take you to the border of
Elanardris directly and you can return to your master unharmed.’

‘My mission is vital, the prince made that very clear to me,’ said
Calabrian. ‘I offer myself to your judgement and mercy.’

Alith regarded Calabrian for a long time, seeking some hint of
deception. There was none that he could see. A glance over the
messenger’s shoulder showed that Anadriel was inspecting Calabrian’s
horse and saddlebags.

‘She will find nothing out of the ordinary,’ said Calabrian, without
looking around. ‘A few personal items and those things needed when
travelling in the grip of winter; that is all.’

Alith did not reply but simply waited for Anadriel to complete her
search.

‘All is well,’ she called out eventually. ‘No weapons of any kind.’

‘These are dangerous times to be travelling unarmed in Nagarythe,’ said
Alith, his suspicion returning. ‘How is it that you could pass without
fear through the Anlec host that sits upon our doorstep?’

‘I came not directly from the south, but crossed the mountains from
Ellyrion,’ explained Calabrian.

‘A dangerous crossing,’ said Alith, unconvinced.

‘Yet it is one that I had to make,’ said Calabrian. ‘Though I do not
know the detail of Prince Malekith’s message, he left me in no doubt as
to its importance and urgency. When I have Prince Eoloran’s reply, I
must return by the same route.’

There was earnestness in Calabrian’s expression that convinced Alith.

‘Very well,’ said Alith, lowering his bow and returning the arrow to its
quiver. ‘Welcome to Elanardris, Calabrian of Tor Andris.’

Alith was not surprised when Calabrian had insisted that only Eoloran,
Eothlir and Alith were allowed to be present when Prince Malekith’s
message was opened. The messenger had requested that he be brought to
the manse in secret, and made it plain that he only trusted the Anars
and feared that agents of Morathi were present in Elanardris. Alith left
him with Anadriel on the slopes north of the manse while he consulted
his father and grandfather.

So it was that in the darkness of the cloud-swathed night, Alith led
Calabrian to the summer house that stood in the eastern stretch of the
garden. A single lamp burned within as Alith entered and gestured for
Calabrian to follow. A ewer of spiced tea sat steaming on the low table
in the middle of the single-roomed building, fluted cups arranged around
it. The smell was sharp and Alith crossed quickly and poured himself a
hot drink, warming his hands on the delicate cup.

Eoloran was stood at the window, gazing to the south, swathed in a
fur-lined robe of deep blue, calfskin gloves upon his hands and his
breath misting in the cold. Eothlir was sat on one of the benches that
lined the white walls of the summer house, the scroll case in his hands.

‘You said that you would offer further assurances as to the veracity of
your claims,’ said Eoloran, still looking out into the darkness. ‘Make
them known to me.’

Calabrian cast an appealing glance towards Alith, who poured a drink for
the messenger. Sipping gently, Calabrian turned to Eoloran.

‘Malekith instructed me to say “The light of the flame burns brightest
at night”,’ said Calabrian, intoning the words with deep solemnity.

Eoloran spun around and glared inquisitively at Calabrian.

‘What does it mean?’ asked Eothlir, taken aback by his father’s
reaction. When Eoloran replied, his voice was quiet, distant.

‘Those words were first spoken by Aenarion. It was before Anlec was
built, just after the daemons had ravaged Avelorn and slain the
Everqueen. I remember it well. He had vowed vengeance for the death of
his wife and the slaying of his children, and in grief had decided to
draw that accursed blade. I argued against him. I warned Aenarion that…
that weapon was not for mortals to wield. I could see that his rage
would consume him, and said as much. Those words were his reply. He left
atop Indraugnir that night and flew to the Blighted Isle. When he
returned, the Aenarion I had known was no more and a life of bloodshed
followed. How do you know this phrase?’

‘You will have to ask Prince Malekith,’ said Calabrian, setting his
empty cup on the table. ‘He bade me to learn the words but offered no
explanation. I trust that you believe my story?’

Eoloran nodded and gestured for Eothlir to pass the scroll case.

‘Only Aenarion and I were present when those words were spoken, but it
seems reasonable that Aenarion might use them again in the presence of
his son,’ Eoloran said.

Taking the case, Eoloran examined the seal and, satisfied that it
remained intact, broke the circlet of black wax with his thumb. He
pulled open the end of the tube and slid out a single piece of
parchment. Placing the case carefully on the table, he opened the
scroll.

‘It is a letter,’ said Eoloran. He scanned the elegant script for a
moment and then began to read aloud, his voice breaking with emotion.

For the eyes of Eoloran Anar, beloved of Aenarion, true protector of
Nagarythe. First I must thank you, though words cannot do justice to the
debt I owe you for your support. I have heard that you marched to my aid
at Ealith, and though that endeavour was ultimately to fail, I escaped
and that is due in no small part to the presence of your army. I
understand the great risk that you took in showing such support and
assure you that you will be honoured and repaid when I reclaim the rule
of Nagarythe. Truly you were a friend to my father and, I hope, an ally
to me.

Eoloran paused, clearing his throat, a tear forming in his eye. He
swallowed hard, brushing away the memories with a wipe of his hand
across his brow. He continued in a clearer voice, his calm demeanour
returned.

Alas that I must entreat further aid from you at this time. What I ask
is dangerous in the extreme and I will not hold it against you should
you feel unfit to comply. Please respond through my messenger,
Calabrian, who can be trusted with the deepest of secrets. However, I
must ask that you tell no more of your people than necessary of what I
now request, lest word of it reach the ears of Morathi, by conventional
means or via other, more deceitful paths. I march upon Anlec with the
first thawing of the spring. Even now, my army assembles in Ellyrion,
far from the prying eyes of my mother and her spies, while other forces
loyal to the Phoenix King draw their gaze southwards. I am confident
that I will reach Anlec, but the defences of the city are little short
of impenetrable.

I ask that you take such warriors as you deem utterly trustworthy and
infiltrate Anlec, there to stand ready for my attack. I cannot say at
what time the stroke shall fall, so you must set out for the city come
the first sun of the spring. No army can breach the gates of Anlec, but
should they be opened before me I stand ready with a host of warriors
the likes of which have not been seen upon Ulthuan’s shores for an age.
I wait with anticipation for your speedy reply and wish you the
blessings of all the gods.

I remain your loyal ally and grateful prince.

‘Then there is the rune of Malekith and his seal,’ Eoloran finished.

‘That is a considerable request,’ said Eothlir as Eoloran passed the
parchment to him.

‘We are going to help, aren’t we?’ said Alith.

‘Yes we are,’ replied Eoloran, surprising Alith with the speed of his
answer. It was unlike Eoloran to take such a decision with so little
consideration. ‘Had the prince commanded us to hurl ourselves at the
walls of Anlec, I would comply. For the sake of Nagarythe, and all of
Ulthuan, Morathi cannot be allowed to continue as ruler. The prince must
be restored if we are ever to know peace again.’

Eoloran stood in thought for a moment, rubbing at his chin. He looked at
Calabrian, who had stood meekly listening to the contents of the letter
he had carried on such a dangerous journey.

‘How much of Malekith’s intent do you know?’ asked Eoloran.

‘No more than you,’ the messenger replied. ‘I left Malekith in Tor Anroc
and knew nothing of his plan to move his army to Ellyrion. Nor of his
intent to assault Anlec.’

‘Then I shall write a reply to your master, and you will be taken across
the mountains to Ellyrion,’ said Eoloran. ‘With Anar guides to lead you,
I am sure that your return journey shall be less fraught than the one
that brought you here.’

‘Who shall we send with him?’ asked Eothlir. ‘Perhaps more importantly,
who shall we take with us to Anlec? And by what means will we get there
unheralded?’

‘Anadriel and the other scouts who met Calabrian already know of his
presence here,’ said Alith. ‘They are all trustworthy, kin to the Anars
each of them. Anadriel knows the mountains as well as I, perhaps even
better. I can think of no better guide, nor a more skilful warrior.’

‘I would have you take Calabrian, Alith, and then return to the manse to
keep our lands safe for our return,’ said Eothlir. ‘To risk every lord
of the Anars on this one quest seems careless, and to abandon Elanardris
would be perverse.’

‘No,’ said Eoloran, cutting across Alith’s protest. ‘Alith has proven
himself in battle, and a finer eye cannot be found in Elanardris. If he
is to have a future as a lord of the Anars, he fights with us. There are
many who can see to the defence of Elanardris in our absence, and if
Malekith marches on Anlec I would say that our foes’ priorities will
quickly change!’

Alith was profoundly grateful for his grandfather’s opinion, but
remained quiet lest an outburst change Eoloran’s mind.

‘For the moment,’ said Eoloran with a look at Alith, ‘he can run down to
the house and bring me back parchment, ink and a quill.’

‘Of course,’ said Alith, bowing his head in thanks. As he left the
summer house, he heard his father’s voice quiet but angry, but his words
were lost as Alith headed down the path towards the manse.

The winter days dragged on as heavy cloud sat upon the mountains, the
snow sometimes coming in blizzards and at other times in more gentle
flurries. Anadriel took Calabrian across the mountains to where the
borders of Nagarythe, Chrace and Ellyrion met, and sent him south to
Malekith.

By secret paths and unknown vantage points, the scouts of the Anars
spied upon the enemy camps, noting their numbers and positions. All of
this was passed to Eoloran to chart the disposition of his foes. With
Alith and Anadriel, the lord of the Anars plotted the route by which a
small group of warriors could evade the enemy and leave Elanardris
unseen. Twice more Calabrian dared the dangerous route across the
mountains to confer with the Anars, bringing assurances from Malekith
that his attack was ready and returning with the renewed promises of
Eoloran. Then the winter’s grip tightened, blizzards ruled the peaks and
there came no further word from the prince.

Thirty warriors were chosen by Eothlir, as those most trusted and most
capable. All had served the Anars for centuries, several of them distant
cousins to Alith. Amongst them were Anadriel, Anraneir, Casadir and
Khillrallion. Eothlir began to refer to these warriors as the Shadows,
as it would be in secrecy rather than strength that they would succeed.

The Shadows met each other every few days, to discuss the route from
Elanardris to Anlec. Khillrallion tested the pathways out of Elanadris
and returned several days later to confirm that he had not seen another
elf in all of that time. While these practical steps were taken, Eoloran
turned his hand to a different form of subterfuge: promulgating a
falsehood to his allies that would explain his coming absence.

Through Caenthras, the ruler of the Anars spread the word that he had
been in contact with Prince Durinne of Galthyr, a port in the west of
Nagarythe. Eoloran let it be known that the two were arranging to meet,
and would confirm their alliance and mutual support in the spring.
Caenthras took this news with enthusiasm, and would often speak of how
he wished for Malekith’s return. Eoloran kept his silence on this
matter, uncertain of Caenthras’s reaction should he know the truth. The
old warrior had been invigorated by the fighting against the Khainites
and was clearly chafing at the imprisonment imposed by the besieging
army. It was Eoloran’s fear that Caenthras would march out to join
Malekith if he knew the truth, leaving Elanardris unprotected, though it
pained him to lie to his friend.

Each day Alith would awaken and look to the skies, hoping to see the
first sun of spring. In Nagarythe, the winters were deep and harsh, but
once the north wind turned to the west and the clouds broke, spring and
then summer would come quickly. The sign that Malekith was ready to
attack grew closer with every morning.

Alith was curled up on a bed of leaves at the back of a cave, at one of
the watch positions overlooking the druchii army. A slight noise caused
him to wake instantly, reaching instinctively for the naked sword that
lay beside him. Someone was silhouetted against the slightly paler
circle of the cavern entrance. A smokeless lamp glowed into life to
reveal the face of Anraneir. He was smiling broadly.

‘Come, sleepy one, and look at this,’ he said, stepping aside.

Alith sprang up and strode to the opening, guessing Anraneir’s cause for
happiness. There was an almost imperceptible warmth on the breeze, which
came from the west. Looking to the east he saw the first red rays of the
sun cresting over Anulir Erain, the White Mother who was the tallest of
the mountains south of the manse.

‘The first spring sun!’ laughed Alith. Anraneir hugged Alith in his joy,
and the young Anar shared his enthusiasm. The sun signalled a very
perilous time for them both, but the prospect of action after such a
bleak winter was exciting.

‘We should head back to the manse today,’ said Anraneir. ‘Your
grandfather will no doubt wish to leave tonight,’

‘Best wait for Mithastir to replace me here,’ said Alith. ‘Someone still
needs to keep an eye on the enemy. You should go now, since it would
raise questions why you are here and not at your post.’

‘Of course,’ said Anraneir, deflated by Alith’s practicality. With a
waved hand and a whispered word he dimmed his lantern and disappeared
into the gloom.

Alith sat cross-legged on the ledge outside the cave, gazing down at the
pinpricks of campfires far below. He whispered a chant in praise of
Kurnous as he waited for Mithastir to arrive, thanking the Lord of the
Hunt for bringing the early spring. Alith took it as a good sign from
his patron.

Singly and in pairs, the Shadows gathered in a small copse of trees
known as the Athelin Emain close to the southern border of Elanardris.
Alith was one of the first, and waited in the darkness for the others to
arrive. As the moons glowed from behind thin clouds, Eoloran and Eothlir
finally made their appearance, clad in dark cloaks like the rest. It was
the first time Alith had seen his father and grandfather dressed in this
fashion, entirely unlike the statesmanlike robes or shining armour he
was accustomed to seeing. The ruler of the Anars gathered his warriors
beneath the boughs of a great tree, the dim moonlight streaming through
the naked branches to cast dappled shadows on the ground.

‘We must pass the druchii line before sunrise,’ said Eoloran, looking at
the thirty Shadows. ‘We all know the path which we take, and the danger
should we be discovered. I offer you one last chance to return to your
homes. As soon as we set foot beyond these trees we are committed to
this journey, all the way to Anlec and whatever fate Morai-heg has
reserved for us. Some of us, perhaps all of us, may not return from this
fight, and it may be a fool’s errand that we run.’

There was silence from the others. Alith was eager for them to start
out, to put an end to the waiting and planning.

‘Good,’ said Eoloran with a grim smile. ‘We are as one mind. Lauded
shall be those that march with me today, and great shall be the
gratitude of the Anars and Prince Malekith.’

With that, Eoloran turned south and the Shadows began their perilous
quest.

It was not long before the Shadows encountered their first difficulty.
Casadir had moved ahead of the main group as lead scout and returned
just as Eoloran and the others were leaving the cover of Athelin Emain.
They had planned to head directly westwards before turning north, but
Casadir brought alarming news.

‘The druchii have shifted the southern boundaries of their camp,’ he
reported as the others gathered at his surprise return. ‘Cultists have
moved south of the road.’

‘Can we go around them?’ asked Anadriel.

‘Certainly,’ replied Casadir. ‘Though if we wish to remain out of sight
we would have to travel through the fens of the Enniun Moreir. Who can
say how many days that would add to our journey?’

‘Arrive at Anlec too late or risk discovery, that is no small choice,’
said Eothlir. He looked at his father. ‘I would put my vote on speed and
directness. The risk of being seen is one that we can control, while the
delays are beyond our measure to manage.’

‘I concur,’ said Eoloran. ‘It would be of little use to arrive too late
and be trapped outside the walls with Malekith.’

‘Perhaps there is even an opportunity here,’ suggested Alith. He turned
to Casadir. ‘How large would you say is the cultist camp? How close are
they to the others?’

‘Two hundred cultists, maybe less,’ said Casadir. ‘They are camped on
the lee side of the hills, on the banks of the Erandath, some distance
from the bridge at Anul Tiran.’

‘What are you thinking?’ asked Eothlir as Alith stayed silent for a
moment.

‘We can address two problems with one solution,’ said Alith. ‘I say we
kill the cultists in their camp, and take on their guise. Clothed as
cultists we can move freely along the roads rather than avoid them,
speeding our journey by many days.’

‘What if the alarm is raised?’ asked Eoloran. ‘What you suggest risks a
battle that we cannot win and an end to our journey before it has
begun.’

‘The cultists will be unprepared and we will use stealth as our weapon,’
replied Alith, nodding as a plan resolved in his mind. ‘From what we saw
of the Khainites, they have no military discipline. They expect no
attack, and more than likely will be lying in their tents stupefied and
unaware.’

‘I saw very little movement,’ added Casadir. ‘It would be very simple to
come upon them unseen, if we choose confrontation.’

‘Kill them in their sleep?’ said Eothlir. ‘What you suggest fills me
with a deep distaste. We are not assassins, we are warriors.’

‘And what of those that have fallen beneath their blades already, and
those that would be sacrificed in the years to come should Malekith
fail?’ growled Alith. ‘Too long has justice been absent from Nagarythe.
It is all well and good to march out gloriously with banners flapping
and clarions blaring, but in this war there are battles to be fought
unseen by others. Are we not the Shadows for a reason?’

Eothlir’s expression showed his uneasiness, but he turned to his father
rather than reply. Eoloran shook his head slowly, unhappy with the
decision he faced.

‘You did not see what we saw in the Khainite camp,’ Alith said. ‘Though
you may think it cold-blooded murder that I propose, we at least will
have the dignity to give our victims a clean and painless death. They
will not be tossed screaming onto fires nor have their living bodies
desecrated by abuse! Does the hunter regret every life he takes, or does
he know that it is the way of the world that some die so that others may
live? He cannot pity the stag or the bear, no more than we can pity
those that have chosen to prey upon their own kind.’

‘You make a powerful argument, Alith,’ replied Eoloran. ‘To move cloaked
in the guise of the enemy would be a great advantage, especially when we
come to Anlec. Though we have pondered long on our journey to the city,
this gives us a means by which we might enter unknown. We must accept
that there is darkness in all shadows, and take strength from the
promise that such deeds as we are about to commit are so that others may
not know such sacrifice.’

With attack decided, the Shadows broke into groups of three and set out,
circling around the cultist encampment. It was past midnight when they
had come to their positions, and all about the camp was quiet. The orgy
of celebration Alith had seen with the Khainites was absent, but clouds
of narcotic vapours drifted from bone-wrought braziers. That the
cultists were in a drugged stupor seemed likely.

Coming to the closest tent, a high pavilion of purple cloth, Alith moved
to the front at a crouch, dagger in hand. There was no movement from
within and only the sound of slow breathing. With a glance around to
ensure he was unobserved, Alith opened the flap and slipped inside.

There were seven elves within, all entwined in nakedness upon a huge
carpet made of several furred skins sewn together. A lamp with red glass
glowed in one corner, bathing everything in vermillion. Two of the elves
were male, the others female, the bare flesh of all marked with runes
drawn in blue dye. Amongst the swirls and shapes, Alith recognised the
rune of Atharti, a goddess of pleasure.

They were utterly still as Alith crouched above the closest. He could
smell the fragrance of black lotus, a powerful narcotic that gave vivid
dreams when smoke from its burning petals was inhaled. Drawing up his
scarf across his mouth and face, Alith leaned forwards and brought his
blade up to the sleeping maiden’s neck. The dagger shone in the ruddy
light and Alith paused.

To kill in the heat of battle was one thing, but to purposefully slay a
defenceless victim was unlike anything Alith had ever done. His hand
began to tremble at the thought and a sudden fear gripped him. Then the
memories of the Khainite ceremony resurfaced in his mind and his hatred
for what he had witnessed quelled all revolt.

With a smooth, almost gentle motion, Alith drew the knife across the
side of the elf maiden’s neck, slicing the artery. Blood spurted from
the wound, a crimson shower that soaked the fur underfoot and pooled on
Alith’s black boots. Fighting down his disgust, Alith moved to the next,
and the next, and the next.

It was soon over and without another glance at those he had slain, Alith
left the tent and moved on, blood dripping from his dagger.

‘By whose leave do you travel on the road?’ demanded the Anlec captain,
his sword half-drawn from its sheath. Behind him stood several dozen
warriors armed with barbed spears and covered from neck to knee in long
coats of blackened mail, their faces hidden behind heavy aventails that
covered their noses and mouths.

It was not the first patrol the Shadows had encountered on the road to
Anlec, and each meeting had been a fraught experience for Alith and the
others. Dressed in the garb of Athartists and Khainites and other
cultists, the Anars had hidden their weapons in swathed bundles upon
their packs and had no means to defend themselves if their enemies
attacked.

The whole journey had been nerve-wracking, the masquerade a thin defence
against inquiry. The group of elves had travelled along the main road to
the capital for seven days, avoiding other parties where possible.
Though they looked the part of cultists, they knew nothing of the
rituals and workings of the cults and were forced to avoid others on the
road. This had led to several instances of the Shadows being forced into
the wilds at night so that they were not asked to share camps.

The number of soldiers on the road had been a problem as well. It was
clear that Malekith’s plan to draw attention to the south was working
and the Shadows had passed by thousands of warriors marching towards the
border with Tiranoc. For the most part these companies had been too
preoccupied with their own fates to notice a small group of cultists,
but there had been several times, such as this, when bored officers had
decided to investigate.

‘I did not know that the roads were barred to those who travelled to pay
homage to Queen Morathi,’ said Eoloran, bowing apologetically. Alith
could imagine the self-loathing his grandfather felt at having to utter
such words, but pride was the least casualty of their subterfuge.

‘There’s war afoot, you should know that,’ snarled the captain. ‘The
roads must be clear for the queen’s armies.’

‘We would offer no obstruction, my noble friend,’ said Eoloran, keeping
his gaze downcast. ‘In fact, we travel to the temples of Anlec so that
we might entreat the gods to bless the endeavours of Morathi’s favoured
warriors. We are not fighters, and we owe everything to the great
soldiers of Nagarythe who would protect us against the persecution of
Bel Shanaar.’

It was a well-rehearsed turn of phrase, which Eoloran had devised after
much thought, and it seemed to be working on the captain.

‘There is little room in the city for vagabonds and wanderers,’ he said.
‘I warn you that there is a levy upon the people of Anlec to provide
more warriors for the army. I see nothing of value in this motley band,
but it is the queen’s decree that all stand ready in defence of our
realm.’

‘You are right, we know little of war and battle,’ said Eoloran. ‘Yet,
should our enemies threaten, none will fight harder than I in the
defence of Nagarythe and her great traditions.’

Alith was forced to turn away and cough to conceal a short laugh at his
grandfather’s wordplay. Certainly the Anars would fight hardest to
restore Malekith to the throne.

The captain mulled over this answer for a time. Having wearied of the
lack of sport provided by Eoloran, he waved the Shadows aside, forcing
them onto the muddied grass bank that lined the road. With glowers at
the group as they passed, the soldiers formed up and marched on, leaving
the Shadows in peace.

Eoloran urged them onwards, keen to put distance between the Shadows and
the soldiers, and only after some time did he speak more freely again.

‘I judge that we are no more than a day from Anlec, and we must be on
our wits,’ he warned. ‘So far it seems that Malekith’s ploy is working,
for if the druchii suspected any attack on Anlec, all roads would be
closed. We must enter the city before the threat is known, lest the
gates be barred against all entry prior to our arrival. I feel that
events will quickly come upon us. We must put haste before caution. We
must reach Anlec before nightfall tomorrow.’

Anlec was more of a fortress than a city, though massive in size and
home to tens of thousands of elves. It was the greatest citadel in the
world, built by Aenarion and Caledor Dragontamer to hold against the
tide of daemons that had assailed Ulthuan. Immense walls encircled the
city, bolstered along its circumference by twenty towers, each a small
castle in its own right. Black and silver banners flapped in the spring
wind from a hundred poles and the glint of weapons could be seen as
hundreds of guards made their patrols along the battlements.

There were three gatehouses, each grander than the manse of Elanardris
and protected by war machines and dozens of soldiers. The gates
themselves were immense portals wrought from blackened iron and
enchanted with the most powerful spells of Caledor. Walls extended like
buttresses from beside the gates, creating a killing field into which
bolts and arrows and spells could be cast upon any attacker. A ring of
outer towers, each garrisoned by a hundred warriors, protected the
approaches. Perhaps most daunting was the great moat of fire that
encircled the entire city, which burnt with a magical green flame and
could only be crossed at three mighty drawbridges.

It was across one of these bridges that the Shadows walked, the heat and
crackling of the flames to either side. The sun was setting behind
Anlec; the city rose out of the gloom like a black monster, spires and
towers its horns and claws.

Once this place had been the beacon in the darkness, the fortress of
Aenarion the Defender. Now the sight of its black granite buildings sent
a shudder of fear through Alith and he cast a glance at Eothlir and
Eoloran. Not for many centuries had they come to the city, ever since
Morathi had usurped rule from the chancellors and councils left by
Malekith. The stories of the dark rites and bloody rituals were enough
to make the skin crawl, and the sight of the city left Alith’s father
and grandfather with pale, pinched faces.

They crossed the killing ground swiftly. Alith glanced up at the high
walls to either side and lamented silently, fearful for any warrior
doomed to assault Anlec. No doubt many thousands of loyal elves would
lose their lives when Malekith attacked. Pushing these sombre thoughts
from his mind, Alith heartened himself with the knowledge that the
Shadows had arrived. It would be their purpose to ensure the gate opened
to save those warriors from such a bloody fate. Seeing Anlec firsthand
strengthened Alith’s resolve and he took no small measure of pride in
the idea that the Anars would play such a pivotal role in the war for
Nagarythe.

Fires could be seen through the yawning maw of the open gate, flickering
from the dark stone of the flanking towers and the huge arch of the
portal. A chill swamped Alith as the Shadows passed into the gatehouse,
as if all light had been extinguished. He suppressed the urge to glance
backwards as the city swallowed them.
