
NINE 

From the Flames

There was none of the ceremony that had accompanied the crowning of Bel
Shanaar. The Shrine of Asuryan was almost empty; the high priest
Mianderin and his acolytes prepared their incantations while Imrik
waited with the ruling princes that had survived the massacre or been
chosen to succeed those who had not. There was one notable absence; no
representative stood for Tiranoc. Messages had been sent, but no word
had returned of who had succeeded Bel Shanaar; Elodhir had been heir
before his death at the hands of Bathinair.

Koradrel had come south with Imrik and Carathril, accompanied by several
hundred Chracians summoned from the mountain towns around Tor Achare.
Not trusting any other with the task, Imrik had appointed the
lion-pelted warriors to be his bodyguard in recognition of their fight
against the assassins. He called them the White Lions of Chrace and news
of their bravery had quickly spread through the several thousand elves
stood guard on the Isle of the Flame. Alongside them were the silent
warriors of the Phoenix Guard. Their numbers were diminished, many
having fallen to knights of Nagarythe and cultists in fighting outside
the shrine while the massacre had taken place within.

Imrik spied the crest of the Phoenix Guard’s captain amidst a troop
standing at the doorway, and left the other princes.

‘Your order has read the secrets held within the Chamber of Days,’ said
Imrik. ‘Written in fire upon the stone are the lives of every Phoenix
King.’

The captain nodded once, his expression unmoving.

‘And you read Bel Shanaar’s doom?’

The captain did not respond, but met Imrik’s glare with a steady gaze.

‘Is my death written there in flame?’ the Caledorian asked.

Again the captain made no gesture of denial or agreement. Snarling,
Imrik grabbed the Phoenix Guard captain by the golden clasp of his
cloak.

‘What use is the wisdom of Asuryan if you keep your tongue?’ snapped
Imrik. ‘You stand silent while our people destroy themselves.’

‘He will not answer you,’ Mianderin called from within the shrine. ‘He
will die before he utters any word. Unhand him, Imrik, and behave like a
king. It is not for us to know the will of Asuryan, nor to second-guess
it. Fate will always prevail.’

Imrik released his grip and stalked back into the shrine, wondering if
there was any means by which he might elude the destiny scribed upon the
walls of the Chamber of Days. He was greeted by a row of expectant
faces. Thyriol was smiling slightly, evidently amused at Imrik’s
outburst.

‘Imrik dies this day,’ declared Mianderin, waving the group to gather
around the eternal flame of Asuryan. ‘As Aenarion and Bel Shanaar before
him, he shall pass into the flames and be destroyed by Asuryan’s
judgement, to be reborn again as the Phoenix King.’

‘If I am to die, then my name will die with me,’ said Imrik, earning
himself a frown from the high priest for the interruption. He ignored
Mianderin’s sigh of annoyance and continued. ‘Imrik will not lead our
people to salvation. I will be Caledor, in honour of my grandfather and
the kingdom that raised me. Imrik will walk into the flames but Caledor
will emerge.’

‘May we continue?’ said Mianderin. Imrik nodded his assent. ‘Today we
crown a new Phoenix King, chosen by the princes of Ulthuan to be the
first amongst equals.’

‘Are we done?’ said Imrik.

He started walking towards the flame. Mianderin hurried after him,
signalling to his acolytes to light incense burners and begin their
chanting. The high priest grabbed Imrik’s arm two steps from the flame.

‘Not yet,’ said Mianderin.

The high priest stepped back and began his own whispering incantation.
Imrik stood looking at the flame of Asuryan. There was no heat. His skin
prickled with magic and he felt the enchantments of the priests weaving
around him. His limbs chilled and his heart slowed.

Two acolytes approached and fastened the long cloak of feathers upon his
shoulder guards. Taking a deep breath, Imrik looked to Mianderin, who
nodded.

Imrik stepped into the fire.

The flames burned through him, touching every part of his body and
spirit. There was no pain, no sensation at all. Imrik felt like a ghost,
apart from the mortal world. He could still hear the singing of the
priests, but the melody had changed, the pitch moved higher. Imrik swore
that a thousand voices were now singing.

He could see nothing but multicoloured fire. He was made of it. He
lifted a hand in front of his face and saw nothing save the dancing
flames.

Imrik wondered if he was dead.

The cloak felt like wings, lifting him up, borne aloft by the flames. He
closed his eyes but nothing changed; still the flames filled his vision.
A gentle breeze seemed to wash over him, its touch smoothing away skin
and flesh and bone, reducing him to delicate ash; all without the
slightest hint of discomfort. Imrik thought that he imagined it.

Sensation returned, the fire coalescing again into his form, creating
body and limbs and head and fingers and every part of him from its
essence. Opening his eyes, he turned and stepped out of the flames.

The princes gave a cheer, raising their fists in salute to their new
king.

‘Hail Caledor, Phoenix King of Ulthuan!’

Caledor nodded in gratitude and rejoined his companions. He did not even
glance back at the flames.

‘What now?’ he asked.

‘It is tradition that you travel to Avelorn, and be married to the
Everqueen,’ said Mianderin. ‘She is Ulthuan’s true ruler, and you must
seek her blessing as well as Asuryan’s.’

The priest leaned in closer and whispered his next words.

‘It is also necessary that you father an heiress to take up the mantle
of Everqueen,’ said Mianderin.

‘No time,’ said Caledor. He looked at the princes. ‘We need an army.
Nagarythe will march soon, if it does not already. There is not a host
of a single kingdom that can match them.’

‘And what would you do with this army?’ asked Aerethenis. The elf was
young, barely an adult, and had just inherited Eataine from his slain
uncle Haradrin. ‘Which lands will you protect with this host?’

‘Protect?’ said Caledor. ‘Ulthuan is too large for one army to guard. We
will invade Nagarythe first.’

This caused consternation, particularly among the newly elevated
princes. There were words of disagreement and Tithrain of Cothique
stepped forwards to voice the complaint.

‘We have few warriors to speak of,’ said the freshly crowned prince.
‘What armies we have defend our lands in the colonies. Not just
Cothique, but also Eataine and Saphery. Yvresse still reels from the
treachery of Bathinair.’

‘You can offer your households,’ Finudel said sharply. ‘And yourselves.
Saphery has mages, Eataine the Sea Guard. All of you have city militia,
raised to combat the cults.’

‘And they still fight that battle,’ said Tithrain. ‘If we march on
Nagarythe we abandon our homes to unknown peril at the hands of
Morathi’s agents and assassins.’

‘Sooner that than allow the legions of Nagarythe to march into your
homes,’ said Athielle. She looked at Caledor with fierce eyes and then
to Koradrel. ‘Chrace and Ellyrion border Nagarythe and will feel the
first blow. Tiranoc also, though I fear the absence of their new prince
tells me we should expect no aid from that quarter, whatever the
reason.’

‘Chrace will fight, you already know that,’ said Koradrel. ‘But the
others are right, cousin. I must return and see to the defence of my
kingdom first before I can accompany you into Nagarythe. When the border
is secure, I will bring such warriors as I have remaining to you.’

Caledor sighed with frustration and looked to Thyriol for support.

‘I will send word for those mages skilled in counter-magic to come here,
so that we might thwart any sorcery of Morathi and her coven,’ said the
Sapherian prince. ‘Like the others, I have few spears and swords for the
cause and many of them must be employed guarding against the enemy that
already lurks within.’

Biting back his disappointment, Caledor remembered that he was chosen as
king to lead, not be a tyrant. The princes were right to be fearful for
the security of their kingdoms. It was not cowardice; it was their first
and greatest duty to protect their people.

‘Very well,’ he said. ‘Let us each return to our kingdoms and make what
preparations we can. We will return here at the first winter moon, in
forty-three days.’

‘Be vigilant for all danger,’ said Thyriol. ‘While we cast our gaze
towards Nagarythe, do not let the enemy near at hand slip from your
sight. The cytharai worshippers will come in force now that all is
revealed. Make no mistake, this is a war now, and we must prevail.’

‘Show no mercy,’ said Caledor. ‘A moment’s weakness will doom us all.’

A long peal shook the bleak mountainside from Dorien’s dragon horn,
rebounding from the bare rocks, echoes muffled by the low mist. Thyrinor
glanced at Imrik – Caledor, he reminded himself – and saw the new
Phoenix King’s eyes intent upon the cave mouths barely visible though
the haze. The new ruler of Ulthuan had passed on the momentous news of
his elevation with barely a glimmer of emotion; no more feeling than if
he had been reporting the weather over the Inner Sea. Caledor had
refused all suggestion of celebration and was even more close-lipped
than he had been before.

They had ridden with haste to the lair of the dragons, Caledor almost
silent for the whole journey. Thyrinor had tried to prise forth some
word concerning the Phoenix King’s thoughts, but had failed. Caledor was
worried, that much Thyrinor could see, and the way he waited for the
dragons to answer the call did nothing to allay Thyrinor’s fears.
Caledor was tense, hands clenched in fists, arms crossed over his
breastplate, jaw clamped shut.

There was none of the show of the last visit. Maedrethnir emerged from a
cave to the elves’ right and swooped down to the bare hill.

‘There is something different about you,’ said the old dragon. His
nostrils flared wide as he sniffed the air, head weaving back and forth
around Caledor. ‘Magic touches you. Old magic.’

‘I am Phoenix King,’ replied Caledor. ‘You sense the flame of Asuryan.’

‘Phoenix King?’ The dragon arched back its neck in surprise. ‘Bel
Shanaar is dead?’

‘War is coming,’ said Caledor, ignoring the question. ‘Will the dragons
ride with the princes of Caledor?’

‘You have become even more abrupt, Imrik,’ said Maedrethnir.

‘I have taken the name Caledor,’ said the Phoenix King. ‘To honour these
lands and the elf that first sought the alliance of the dragons.’

Maedrethnir snorted, though Thyrinor could not tell whether from
amusement or derision. Regardless, the dragon bowed its head and
launched into the air, circling back to the cave from which he had
emerged.

They waited a long time. Thyrinor tried to engage with Dorien, but he
seemed to have been infected by his brother’s mood and would say no more
than a few words in reply. Eventually Thyrinor gave up and sat down on a
rock, left to his own dark thoughts.

Dusk was approaching when finally Maedrethnir appeared again. Two more
dragons followed him out of the cave: Anaegnir and Nemaerinir. The three
dragons landed around the elves, wings cutting swirls though the
thickening mist.

‘No more?’ said Caledor.

‘We three are all that will come,’ said Maedrethnir. ‘No others will
answer the call.’

‘Three dragons is enough to destroy Nagarythe,’ said Dorien. He turned
to Nemaerinir, his own mount. ‘Thank you for heeding the call.’

‘I slept only lightly,’ the red-scaled dragon replied. ‘Another year and
perhaps I would not have answered.’

‘Maedrethnir spoke of war and you mention Nagarythe,’ said Anaegnir, her
voice mellower than the males. ‘What evil stirs in the north?’

‘Treachery,’ replied Thyrinor. ‘The Naggarothi try to usurp power and
the other kingdoms have little might to respond. The dragons of Caledor
will go a long way to restoring the balance of power.’

‘To fight elves?’ said Nemaerinir. The dragon rumbled deep in his
throat. ‘An unpleasant business.’

‘Yes,’ said Caledor. ‘Yet one we must attend to.’

‘The Naggarothi promote the worship of the undergods,’ said Thyrinor.
‘They would have all of Ulthuan under thrall of Khaine and Ereth Khial
and others should they be victorious.’

‘There are worse gods to be in thrall to,’ said Maedrethnir.

‘Our division makes us weak,’ said Dorien. ‘A weakness the Chaos Gods
will sense and act upon. If the elves fall, who will keep the vortex
from failing? The dwarfs? The humans? The orcs?’

‘Dorien is right,’ said Thyrinor. ‘We must fight not just for the fate
of ourselves, but for the future of the world. If Morathi and her
followers rule, they will bring dark magic and sorcery and the daemons
will come again.’

‘It shall not be so,’ growled Anaegnir. ‘We will help you.’

‘Good,’ said Caledor. ‘We ride back to Tor Caled. Meet us at the palaces
when you are ready.’

‘And then where?’ said Dorien. ‘The Naggarothi can march straight
through Tiranoc and be upon our borders before we know it.’

‘They would be foolish to march before spring,’ replied Thyrinor. ‘We
have time to muster the army.’

‘The army will wait, but the cultists will not,’ said Dorien. ‘They will
rise up and pave the way for the Naggarothi advance. There will be death
this winter, mark my words.’

‘A dragon cannot hunt cultists,’ said Anaegnir. ‘Not unless you wish
your cities ruined and your fields burned.’

‘You are right,’ said Caledor. ‘We shall wait for the army of Nagarythe.
Then we kill them.’
