
One 

Broken Legacy

None knew at the time that the greatest saviour of the elves would also
be their doom. Yet there was one who foresaw the darkness and death to
come: Caledor Dragontamer. When Aenarion the Defender, bulwark against
the daemons and first of the Phoenix Kings, drew the Sword of Khaine
from its black altar, Caledor, greatest mage of Ulthuan, was gifted with
a dark prophecy.

Caledor saw that in taking the dire blade forged for the God of Murder,
Aenarion awakened the bloodthirsty spirit that had been buried deep
within the elves. In Aenarion’s line more than any other, the call for
war and the thrill of battle was stirred, and across the isle of Ulthuan
love of bloodletting was kindled and the innocence of the Everqueen’s
rule passed forever.

That Aenarion drew the sword at all was born out of grief and anger, and
its call haunted him until the day he drove it back into the fell altar
of Khaine just before he died. It was that same anguish and loss that
drove him to marry the seeress Morathi, whom the Phoenix King had
rescued from the grip of Chaos.

Morathi wielded the power of magic without reserve, eager to harness the
great energies unleashed upon the world by the coming of Chaos. There
were those who saw such practices as obscene and dangerous, and there
were whispers that Morathi had bewitched Aenarion. That she craved power
was plain for many to see, yet Aenarion was oblivious to their protests
and banished them from his presence.

At Anlec, Aenarion and Morathi held court, and in that bleak time their
palace was a fortress of war and sorcery. The deadliest warriors came
and learnt at Aenarion’s hand, while the most gifted spellweavers were
taught the deepest secrets known to Morathi. With spell and spear, the
warriors of Anlec carved the kingdom of Nagarythe from the grip of the
daemons, wielding grave weapons forged in the furnaces of Vaul the Smith
God by the servants of Caledor.

It was into the midst of destruction and vengeance that Malekith was
born, son of Aenarion and Morathi. As was the tradition of those times,
a blade was forged for him at the hour of his birth, and he was taught
to wield it as soon as his limbs were strong enough to hold it aloft.

From his father, he learnt the skills of rulership and warcraft, and
from his mother, Malekith was gifted the power to bind the tempests of
magic to his will.

Into Malekith, the Phoenix King poured all of his wisdom and knowledge,
but also his thirst for revenge upon the daemons that had taken his
first wife and the children borne by her. Into Malekith, Morathi
invested her will to achieve anything no matter the cost, and the hunger
for glory and greatness.

‘Remember that you are the son of Aenarion,’ she told Malekith when he
was but a child. ‘Remember that you are the son of Morathi. In your
blood flows the greatest strength of this isle.’

‘You are a warrior born,’ Aenarion said. ‘You shall be fell with blade
and bow, and you shall wield armies as lesser elves wield their swords.’

Day after day they told their son this, from before he was old enough to
understand their words, to the day Aenarion died.

It was to the lament of Aenarion that the tide of daemons did not cease,
and his constant battles were thus ever in vain. Caledor it was that
created the great vortex, which to this day siphons away the power of
Chaos and drains it from the world. With the magical energy needed to
sustain their material forms now much diminished, the daemons perished,
though Caledor and his mages were trapped in stasis within the vortex,
cursed to fight against the encroachment of Chaos for eternity. Aenarion
gave his life defending Caledor and his mages, and with his last
strength returned to the Blighted Isle and restored the Godslayer to the
black altar of Khaine.

In the time after the daemons had passed, the great princes of the elves
– those warriors and mages who had fought alongside Caledor and Aenarion
– came together to decide the path of the future rule of Ulthuan. In the
forests of Avelorn, from where the slain Everqueen had ruled, they held
the First Council a year after Aenarion’s departure.

The princes met in the Glade of Eternity, a great amphitheatre of trees
at the centre of which stood a shrine to Isha, the Goddess of Nature,
matron of the Everqueen. Grown of twining silver roots and branches,
with emerald-green leaves festooned with blooms in every season, the
Aein Yshain glowed with mystical power. By the light of the moons and
the stars, the First Council convened, bathed in the twilight of the
open skies and the aura of the blessed tree.

Morathi and Malekith were there. Dark-haired and coldly beautiful, the
seeress wore a dress of black cloth so fine that it appeared as a
diaphanous cloud that barely concealed her alabaster skin. Her raven
hair was swept back by bands of finely woven silver threads hung with
rubies, and her lips were painted to match the glittering gems. Slender
and noble of bearing she stood, and bore a staff of black iron in her
hands.

Malekith was no less imposing. As tall as his father and of similarly
dark eyes, he wore a suit of golden mail, and a breastplate upon which
was embossed the coiling form of a dragon. A long sword hung in a
gold-threaded scabbard at his waist, its pommel wrought from the same
precious metal: a dragon’s claw grasping a sapphire the size of a fist.

With them came other princes of Nagarythe who had survived the fighting
on the Isle of the Dead. They were dressed in their fine armour, and
wore dark cloaks that hung to their ankles, and proudly bore the scars
and trophies of their wars with the daemons.

The sinister princes of the north were arrayed with knives, spears,
swords, bows, shields and armour wrought with the runes of Vaul,
testaments to the power of Nagarythe and Anlec. Banner bearers with
black and silver standards stood in attendance, and heralds sounded the
trumpets and pipes at their arrival. A cabal of sorcerers accompanied
the Naggarothi contingent, clad in robes of black and purple, their
faces tattooed and scarred with ritual sigils, their heads shaved.

Another group there was, of princes from the lands founded by Caledor in
the south, and from the new realms to the east – Cothique, Eataine,
Yvresse and others. At the fore stood the young mage Thyriol, and
golden-haired Menieth, son of Caledor Dragontamer.

In contrast to the Naggarothi these elves of the south and east were as
day is to night. Though all had played their part in the war against the
daemons, these princes had cast off their wargear and instead carried
staves and ­sceptres, and in the place of war helms they wore golden
crowns as symbols of their power. They were clad predominantly in white,
the colour of mourning, in remembrance of the losses their people had
suffered; the Naggarothi eschewed such affectation even though they had
lost more than most.

‘Aenarion has passed on,’ Morathi declared to the council. ‘The
Godslayer, the Widowmaker, he returned to the altar of Khaine so that we
can be free of war. In peace, my son wishes to rule, and in peace we
would explore this new world that surrounds us. Yet, I fear peace now is
a thing of memory, and perhaps one day to be nothing more than myth. Do
not think that the Great Powers that now gaze upon our world with
hungry, immortal eyes can be so easily defeated. Though the daemons are
banished from our lands, the power of Chaos is not wholly exiled from
the world. I have gazed far and wide this past year, and I have seen
what changes the fall of the gods has wrought upon us.’

‘In war, I would follow no other king,’ said Menieth, striding to the
centre of the circle formed by the princes. ‘In Nagarythe is found the
greatest strength of arms upon this isle. The war is over, though, and I
am not sure that the strength of Nagarythe lies in tranquillity. There
are other realms now, and cities where there were castles. Civilisation
has triumphed over Chaos on Ulthuan, and we shall take that civilisation
across the seas and the elves shall reign where the gods have fallen.’

‘And such arrogance and blindness shall see us humbled,’ said Morathi.
‘Far to the north, the lands are blasted wastelands, where creatures
corrupted by dark magic crawl and flit. Ignorant savages build altars of
skulls in praise of the new gods, and spill the blood of their kin in
worship. Monstrous things melded of flesh and magic prowl the darkness
beyond our shores. If we are to bring our light to these benighted
lands, it shall be upon the glittering tip of spear and arrow.’

‘Hardship and bloodshed are the price we pay for our survival,’ argued
Menieth. ‘Nagarythe shall march at the forefront of our hosts and with
the valour of the Naggarothi we shall pierce that darkness. However, we
cannot be ruled by war as we were when Aenarion strode amongst us. We
must reclaim our spirits from the love of bloodshed that consumed us,
and seek a more enlightened path towards building a new world. We must
allow the boughs of love and friendship to flourish from the roots of
hatred and violence sown by the coming of Aenarion. We shall never
forget his legacy, but our hearts cannot be ruled by his anger.’

‘My son is the heir of Aenarion,’ Morathi said quietly, menace in her
soft voice. ‘That we stand here at all is the prize wrested from defeat
by my late husband.’

‘But won no less by my father’s sacrifice,’ Menieth countered. ‘For a
year we have pondered what course of action to take, since the deaths of
Aenarion and Caledor. Nagarythe shall take its place amongst the other
realms; great in its glory, yet not greater than any other kingdom.’

‘Greatness is earned by deeds, not bestowed by others,’ said Morathi,
striding forwards to stand in front of Menieth. She planted her staff in
the ground between them and glared at the prince, her grip tight upon
the metal rod.

‘It is not to fall upon each other that we fought against the daemons
and sacrificed so much,’ said Thyriol hurriedly. Clad in robes of white
and yellow that glimmered with golden thread, the mage laid a hand upon
the shoulder of Morathi and upon the arm of Menieth. ‘In us has been
awakened a new spirit, and we must temper our haste with cool judgement,
just as a newly forged blade must be quenched in the calming waters.’

‘Who here feels worthy enough to take up the crown of the Phoenix King?’
Morathi asked, glaring at the princes with scorn. ‘Who here save my son
is worthy of being Aenarion’s successor?’

There was silence for a while, and none of the dissenters could meet
Morathi’s gaze, save for Menieth, who returned her cold stare without
flinching. Then a voice rang out across the glade from the shadows of
the trees encircling the council.

‘I have been chosen!’ the voice called.

From the trees walked Bel Shanaar, ruling prince of the plains of
Tiranoc. Behind him strode a gigantic figure, in shape as of a tree
given the power to walk. Oakheart was his name; one of the treemen of
Avelorn who had acted as guard to the Everqueen and tended the sacred
shrines of the elves’ homeland.

‘Chosen by whom?’ asked Morathi contemptuously.

‘By the princes and the Everqueen,’ Bel Shanaar replied, standing to one
side of the holy tree of Isha.

‘Astarielle was slain,’ Morathi said. ‘The reign of the Everqueen is no
more.’

‘She lives on,’ said a ghostly, feminine voice that drifted around the
glade.

‘Astarielle was slain by the daemons,’ Morathi insisted, casting her
gaze about to spy whence the voice had come, her eyes narrowed with
suspicion.

The leaves on all of the trees began to quiver, filling the glade with a
gentle susurrus as if a wind whispered through the treetops, though the
air was still. The long grass of the glade began to sway in the same
invisible breeze, bending towards the Aein Yshain at the clearing’s
centre. The glow of the sacred tree grew stronger, bathing the council
in a golden light dappled with sky blues and verdant greens.

In the shimmering brightness, a silhouette of greater light appeared
upon the knotted trunk, resolving itself into the form of a young elf
maiden. Morathi gasped, for at first it seemed as if Astarielle indeed
still lived.

The maiden’s golden hair hung to her waist in long plaited tresses woven
with flowers of every colour, and she wore the green robes of the
Everqueen. Her face was delicate, even by elven standards, and her eyes
the startling blue of the clearest summer skies. As the light dimmed,
the elf’s features became clearer and Morathi saw that this newcomer was
not Astarielle. There was a likeness, of that Morathi was aware, but she
relaxed as she scrutinised the girl.

‘You are not Astarielle,’ Morathi declared confidently. ‘You are an
impostor!’

‘Not Astarielle, you are right,’ replied the maiden, her voice soft yet
carrying easily to the furthest reaches of the glade. ‘I am not an
impostor, either. I am Yvraine, daughter of Aenarion and Astarielle.’

‘More trickery!’ shrieked Morathi, rounding on the princes with such an
expression of anger that many flinched from her ire. ‘Yvraine is also
dead! You conspire to keep my son from his rightful inheritance.’

‘She is Yvraine,’ said Oakheart, his voice a melodic noise like the
sighing of a light wind through branches. ‘Though Astarielle remained to
protect Avelorn against the daemons, she bid us to take her children to
safety. To the Gaen Vale I carried them, where no other elf has trod.
There my kin and I fought the daemons and kept Yvraine and Morelion safe
those many years.’

At this there were gasps from the Naggarothi, none louder than the
exclamation of Malekith.

‘Then my half-brother also still lives?’ the prince demanded.
‘Aenarion’s first son is alive?’

‘Calm yourself, Malekith,’ said Thyriol. ‘Morelion has taken ship and
sailed from Ulthuan. He is a child of Avelorn, as is Yvraine, and he
seeks no claim to the rule of Nagarythe. He is blessed of Isha, not a
scion of Khaine, and seeks neither dominion nor fealty.’

‘You kept this from Aenarion?’ Morathi’s tone was full of incredulity.
‘You allowed him to believe his children were dead, and raised them
separated from their father? You have hidden them from–’

‘I am the beloved of Isha,’ said Yvraine, her voice stern, silencing
Morathi. ‘In me is reborn the spirit of the Everqueen. Anlec is a place
of blood and rage. It could not be my home, I could not live amongst the
taint of Khaine, and so Oakheart and his kind raised me in the manner
and place fitting for my station.’

‘I see now your conspiracy,’ said Morathi, stalking across the glade to
confront the princes. ‘In secrecy you have muttered and whispered, and
kept the Naggarothi from your counsels. You seek to supplant the line of
Aenarion with one of your own, and wrest the power of Ulthuan from
Nagarythe.’

‘There is no power to wrest, no line to break,’ replied Thyriol. ‘Only
in pain and death does Nagarythe prevail. We sent messengers to Anlec
and you turned them away. We sought to include you in our deliberations,
but you would send no embassy. We gave you every right and opportunity
to make the claim for your son and you chose to tread your own path.
There is no conspiracy.’

‘I am the widow of Aenarion, the queen of Ulthuan,’ Morathi snarled.
‘When the daemons preyed upon your people, did Aenarion and his
lieutenants stand by and discuss matters in council? When Caledor began
his spell, did he debate its merits with the peons? To rule is to wield
the right to decide for all.’

‘You are queen no longer, Morathi,’ said Yvraine, ghosting softly across
the glade, her steps as light as settling snowflakes. ‘The Everqueen has
returned and I shall rule with Bel Shanaar, just as Aenarion reigned
with my mother.’

‘You will wed Bel Shanaar?’ asked Morathi, turning on Yvraine.

‘As Aenarion wed my mother, so the Everqueen will marry the Phoenix
King, and ever shall it be down all of the ages,’ Yvraine declared. ‘I
cannot marry Malekith, my half-brother, no matter what his entitlement
or qualities to succeed his father.’

‘Usurpers!’ shrieked Morathi, raising up her staff. Malekith leapt
forwards and snatched the rod from her grip.

‘No more!’ the prince of Nagarythe cried out. ‘I would not have the
realm forged by my father torn asunder by this dispute.’

Malekith laid a comforting hand upon the cheek of his mother, and when
she was calmed he returned her staff to her. With a last venomous glare
at Yvraine and Bel Shanaar, the seeress turned her back upon them and
returned to the Naggarothi contingent to glower and sneer.

‘I do not seek the throne of Ulthuan to become a tyrant,’ said Malekith.
‘It is to honour my father and see his legacy fulfilled that I would
become Phoenix King. I do not claim this as a right of birth, but
surrender myself to the judgement of those here. If it is the decision
of this council that Bel Shanaar should wed my half-sister and become
king, I will not oppose it. I ask only that you consider my petition
this one last time, for it is plain that we have allowed division and
misconception to cloud our minds.’

The princes nodded in agreement at these well-spoken words, and gathered
together under the eaves of the Avelorn trees. They talked for a long
time, until dawn touched her red fingers upon the treetops and the
morning mists drifted up from the fertile earth. Back and forth swayed
the debate, for some were heartened by Malekith’s gentle entreaty and
believed that though he was his father’s son, he had not wielded the
Godslayer and so was not touched by its darkness. Others reminded the
council of Caledor’s prophecy that Aenarion’s line was touched by
Khaine, and argued that a child of Anlec could never be freed from its
curse.

‘We have made our decision,’ Thyriol informed the Naggarothi. ‘While
Malekith is a fine prince, he is yet young and has much to learn about
the world, as do we all. Now is a time for wisdom and guidance, not iron
rule, and for these reasons we remain committed to the investiture of
Bel Shanaar.’

Morathi gave a scream of derision, but Malekith held up a hand to
silence her.

‘The fate of Ulthuan is not for a single elf to decide, and I accede to
the wisdom of this council,’ Malekith declared. He crossed the glade
and, to the amazement of all, bent to one knee before Bel Shanaar. ‘Bel
Shanaar shall succeed my father, though he cannot replace him, and with
his wisdom we shall herald a new age for our people. May the gods grant
our new king the strength to prosper and rule justly, and know that
should ever his will falter or his resolve waver, Nagarythe stands
ready.’

Though Malekith bore himself with dignity and respect, he was sorely
disappointed by the council’s decision. He returned to Nagarythe with
his mother, and did not attend the ritual wedding of Bel Shanaar and
Yvraine. However, he did travel to the Isle of Flame to bear witness to
Bel Shanaar’s passing through the sacred flames of Asuryan, though the
sight stirred within him a kernel of jealousy that he could not wholly
quench.

The shrine itself was a high pyramid in form, built above the burning
flame of the king of the gods. The flame danced and flickered at the
heart of the temple, thrice the height of an elf, burning without noise
or heat. Runes of gold were inlaid into the marble tiles of the floor
around the central fire, and these blazed with a light that was not
wholly reflected from the flame. Upon the white walls were hung braziers
wrought in the shape of phoenixes with their wings furled, and more
magical fire burned within them, filling the temple with a golden glow.

All the princes of Ulthuan were there, resplendent in their cloaks and
gowns, with high helms and tall crowns of silver and gold studded with
gemstones from every colour of the rainbow. Only the Naggarothi stood
out amongst this feast of colour, taciturn and sombre in their black and
purple robes. Morathi stood with Malekith and his followers, the seeress
eyeing the proceedings with suspicion.

Astromancers were present too, seven of them, who had determined that
this day was the most auspicious to crown the new Phoenix King. They
wore robes of deep blues patterned with glistening diamonds in the
constellations of the stars, linked by the finest lines of silver and
platinum.

The astrologers stood next to the chanting priests of Asuryan, who
weaved their prayers around Bel Shanaar so that he might pass through
the flames unscathed. Behind the priests sat the oracles of Asuryan;
three elven maidens of pale skin and blonde hair, garbed in raiment of
silver that shimmered in the dazzling light.

Yvraine and her maiden guard had journeyed from Avelorn to join the
ascension of her ceremonial husband. These warrior-women wore skirts of
silvered scale edged with green cloth, and carried garlands of flowers
in place of their spears and bows, for no weapon was allowed to pass the
threshold of Asuryan’s temple.

Bel Shanaar stood with the high priest before the flame, and about his
shoulders was hung a cloak of white and black feathers, a newly woven
symbol of his power and authority.

‘As did Aenarion the Defender, so too shall I submit myself to the
judgement of the greatest power,’ Bel Shanaar solemnly intoned. ‘My
purity proven by this ordeal, I shall ascend to the throne of the
Phoenix King, to rule wisely and justly in the name of the king of
gods.’

‘Your father needed no spells of protection,’ muttered Morathi. ‘This is
a fraud, of no more legitimacy than the sham wedding to Yvraine.’

Malekith did not hear her words, for his attention and thoughts were
bent entirely upon the unfolding ceremony.

As the priests burned incense and made offerings to Asuryan, the oracles
began to sing quietly, their verses almost identical but for a few words
here and there, which rose into a joyful harmony as Bel Shanaar was
ushered towards the flame of Asuryan. The Phoenix King-to-be turned and
looked back towards the princes, with no sign of trepidation or
exultation.

With a respectful nod Bel Shanaar faced towards the centre of the shrine
and walked forwards, slowly ascending the shallow steps that led up to
the dais over which the god’s cleansing fires gleamed. All present then
fell hushed in anticipation as Bel Shanaar stepped within the flame,
which turned to a glaring white and forced the onlookers to cast their
gazes away lest they be blinded by its intensity.

As their eyes grew accustomed to the bright burning of the flame, they
could see the vague shape of Bel Shanaar within, arms upraised as he
offered fealty to Asuryan. Then the Phoenix King turned slowly and
stepped back out of the flames unharmed. There was a sighing of
exhalation as the princes expressed their relief that all went well. The
Naggarothi remained silent.

The entourage left, laughing and chattering, save for Malekith, who
stayed for a long while gazing at the flame and pondering his fate. The
sacred fire had returned to its shifting colours, now seeming dim after
its dazzling eruption. To Malekith it seemed as if they had been
diminished, tainted by the presence of Bel Shanaar.

Unaware of anything but that burning shrine, Malekith walked slowly
forwards, his mind a swirl of conflicting emotions. If he but dared the
flame and survived, without the spells of the priests to protect him,
then surely it was the will of Asuryan that he succeed his father. Yet
what if he was not strong enough? Would the burning of the flames devour
him? What then would be left of his hopes and dreams for Nagarythe?

Without realisation Malekith stood directly before the fires, mesmerised
by their shifting patterns. The urge to reach out gripped him and he was
about to place his hand into the flame when he heard the footsteps of
the priests re-entering the temple. Snatching his hand away, Malekith
turned from the sacred fire and strode quickly from the shrine, ignoring
the priests’ inquiring glances.

There were to be many days of feasting and celebration, but Malekith
left as soon as the ceremony was complete, his duty having been
fulfilled. He felt no urge to linger here, where his father had first
thrown himself upon the mercy of the greatest god and been reborn as the
saviour of his people. If Bel Shanaar wished to be Phoenix King, then
Malekith was satisfied to acquiesce. There were more than enough
challenges ahead for him to overcome, Malekith knew, without inciting
rivalry and discord. Content for the moment, he journeyed back to Anlec
to take up his rule.
