
TWENTY-FOUR


Strength of Elanardris

The mood amongst the shadow warriors was shock and dismay. Summoned by
Tharion, they had come here, to the ruins of Elanardris, to hear what
the future held for them. Many were at a loss without Alith’s leadership
and there were whispers of doubt that the shadow army could continue
without him.

Tharion sensed a shift in the war. The news of the Shadow King’s demise
quickly spread. With one act, the balance of favour had moved, the
druchii regaining their former aggression, sensing weakness in their
foes. Their sweeps of the wilderness for the shadow bands became bolder,
while the shadow warriors, who had long believed in the myths of their
own invulnerability, became more timid. They had survived and prospered
with their daring, but now they were too often surrendering the
initiative to their foes. The momentum of the war was changing.

Tharion knew exactly what was happening: the hunters were fast becoming
the hunted again.

With Alith’s passing command had fallen to Tharion, who had gathered his
followers in the ruins at Elanardris as a reminder of what they fought
for. Hundreds of them were hunched around the fires, faces drawn,
expressions bleak.

‘We cannot allow these reverses to continue to sap morale,’ Tharion told
them, standing upon what had once been a wall separating the east
gardens from the summer lawn. ‘If the druchii do not fear us, we have
failed.’

‘We will continue the fight!’ said Casadir, the only shadow warrior to
have escaped Athel Yranuir. He looked around at the others, but their
support was half-hearted.

‘How do we fight without the Shadow King?’ a voice called from the
darkness. ‘Our enemies grow stronger while we diminish.’

‘It is true,’ said another. ‘I have come from Chrace, and the tidings
are grim. A new force has arrived in Ulthuan, brought back from the
colonies by Morathi. I do not know exact numbers, but tens of thousands
of warriors, all of them hardened in many campaigns, have made landfall
in Cothique. I fear the kingdom will be under Morathi’s sway by the end
of the year.’

‘We must redouble our efforts here, to ensure that Caledor can
concentrate all of his warriors on this new threat,’ said Casadir.

Tharion sighed and then frowned.

‘It will not be as simple as that,’ he said. ‘With fresh armies in the
east, Morathi’s commanders are likely to bring back much of their
existing force to Nagarythe, to rest and resupply for a fresh offensive
next year.’

‘More targets for us,’ growled Casadir, and there were words of assent
from other shadow-walkers.

‘That is true to a certain extent,’ said Tharion. ‘What will be more
important will be the thousands of troops coming back to Nagarythe. No
doubt they will not stand idle while we continue our attacks.’

The significance of this began to sink in and there was a disquieted
whispering amongst the shadow-walkers.

‘What do you propose that we do, lord?’ asked Anraneir. ‘The returning
armies will use Dragon Pass and Phoenix Pass; perhaps we could gather in
strength there and attack them on the move?’

‘They will be expecting that,’ Tharion said with a shake of his head.
‘There are less than two thousand of us left, these six years of
fighting having taken a steady toll. We could harass the druchii columns
without committing our strength, but that will not serve our ends well.
A few hundred dead here or there is of no meaning to them.’

‘We can still hurt the druchii, of that I am convinced,’ said Anraneir.
He shrugged. ‘I cannot see how, just yet. If we were to bring all of our
forces together, we might be able to strike back powerfully once more,
but to do so risks discovery and ultimate defeat.’

‘We are growing fewer, that cannot be denied,’ Tharion said quietly. ‘In
a war of attrition we have no hope of victory. What else can you tell us
from the east, Tethion?’

‘The wider campaign is at a stalemate, unless these new druchii forces
turn the tide against us,’ the shadow-walker announced. ‘The enemy
possess Nagarythe, Chrace and Tiranoc, and much of Ellyrion and
Cothique. Lothern is frequently besieged. Cultist uprisings continue to
plague those cities and realms not yet under the sway of Anlec. There is
rumour that the mages of Saphery battle with some of their number who
have been swayed to the path of dark sorcery.

‘Even the realm of Caledor is not free from the taint of corruption.
While the Phoenix King pursues the greater war, the cults have
infiltrated his mountain realm to sow discord. Many Caledorians support
the king but would look to the defence of their own realm before
expending the lives of their kin for the protection of the other
kingdoms. Earlier this year, several priests of Vaul were discovered to
be in league with Anlec, making magical weapons and armour for the
druchii and smuggling them north through Tiranoc. Their leader fled,
having stolen the sacred hammer of his god. I am sure that he labours in
Anlec now, forging new weapons for the princes of Nagarythe.’

‘Is there no report that might give us hope?’ asked Tharion.

There were shakes of heads and disconsolate sighs all around the fire.

‘Then it is time that I revealed to you why I have brought you all
here,’ Tharion continued. ‘I spoke with the Shadow King before he left
for Athel Yranuir. I shared with him my doubts and he listened. He gave
me instructions, which we will all follow.

‘The shadow army will come together again,’ he declared. There were
happier murmurs from the shadow-walkers but Tharion cut them off with a
gesture. ‘Not for a battle. We have never been victorious by pure force
of arms. Guile and deception are weapons as useful to us as bow and
sword, and with guile and deception we must lure the druchii into a
position more favourable for us.’

Some of the elves nodded; the faces of other betrayed incomprehension.

‘The druchii are full of confidence. They have a right to be. If we
stand face-to-face against this resurgence, we risk becoming
overwhelmed. No, we will not fight that way. We will lie low, bide our
time and wait for the right opportunity. The druchii will think they
have crushed us. We will allow them this illusion of victory, it is only
our pride that is wounded by it. Their eyes will turn elsewhere, to the
fresh campaigns in the east, and they will believe Nagarythe safe under
their control. Then, and only then, we will strike again, rising up from
the shadows to deal a blow to our foes that will make them hate and fear
us more than ever.’

‘And where would you have us hide?’ asked Casadir. ‘If we scatter into
the populace we risk discovery by the cults, if we continue to live in
the wilds as we do now, then why not continue the fight?’

Tharion stood up and spread his arms, encompassing their surrounds. The
tumbled stones of Elanardris glowed ruddily in the firelight, already
overgrown by moss and creepers, the once-carefully maintained gardens
reverting to wilderness.

‘Here we were born, and here we will be reborn,’ Tharion declared. ‘For
some time I have been thinking; thinking about the past and the future.
Though Morathi may control the lands of Nagarythe, there are many that
suffer under the yoke of her tyranny. There are those who are
sympathetic to our cause, amongst the downtrodden folk who labour for
Morathi and her minions. Those that can be wholly trusted we will bring
here, adults and children alike, and found a new generation of shadow
warriors. This war will not end soon and we must look to the future.’

Tharion began to pace around the fire, meeting the gazes of the shadow
warriors.

‘Have no doubts, no matter what happens we will never surrender. It is
possible that none of us will see victory in our lifetimes, and so we
must lay down the foundations for our army to continue the fight after
we have passed on. While there remains any spirit of defiance to Anlec
and resistance to the druchii, our enemies can claim no victory.
Elanardris is no more, consigned to bitter history, bare stones and
memories of better times the only testament to the dynasty that once
thrived here. I will not rebuild the manse, nor replant the gardens. It
is not in the bricks and the mortar that Elanardris found strength, but
in the blood of its people and the power of the land. These are our
lands still, and they need a people to live in them. While we draw
breath and struggle, Elanardris will not wholly die.’

By secret means, word was brought to the disaffected and disloyal
Naggarothi, those who served out of fear rather than loyalty. They were
encouraged to desert, though few ever made it to Elanardris. In ones and
twos they came, slipping away from their homes and garrisons under cover
of darkness, to meet the shadow warriors in out-of-the-way places.
Sometimes whole families came, making the journey on foot through the
briars and across the moors, seeking sanctuary in the mountains.

Wary of infiltration by agents from Anlec, Tharion personally vetted
every hopeful, killing out of hand any that caused him the slightest
suspicion. There were some, he knew, that were innocent, but the lives
of so many depended upon absolute security. It was essential that the
druchii remained oblivious to the subtle stream of refugees fleeing
their oppression. The slightest notion that all was not as they desired
would bring down the wrath of Anlec.

The old refugee camps had long been swept away by the years and so the
shadow warriors and their charges set to building new shelters. Hidden
in caves and in the hearts of the mountain woods, they stored food and
clothes, blankets and water.

Under roofs made of woven branches, in shelters made of rockpiles, in
hollows behind waterfalls and in reed-covered huts in the marshlands,
the new people of Elanardris eked out their existence. Tharion always
felt an eerie calm when he visited these places, their inhabitants
quiet, thankful for their salvation but extremely cautious. They spoke
little of the lives they had left behind, and few cared to speculate on
the future. Even the children were quiet; there were few sounds of
innocent joy and laughter was a rarity. Survival became the goal; to
avoid discovery and see another dawn was measured a success.

Despite Tharion’s earlier belief, the druchii did not withdraw their
exhausted, bloodied armies from the fighting in the east. The
reinforcements from the colonies were simply added to their numbers and
Morathi’s commanders pushed them even harder. Nagarythe was made a
little safer by this aggression, though the rest of Ulthuan suffered for
it.

The shadow warriors patrolled the borders but did not attack unless
necessary. Tharion wanted no attention to be paid to the shadow army,
their lack of activity reinforcing the belief that the Shadow King’s
death had led to their dispersal. It gnawed at his pride to allow the
druchii to gloat over this, but pride was an easy sacrifice when so much
was at stake.

In the spring of the eighth year of the shadow war, a child was born in
Elanardris, the first since the war had begun. There was little
celebration, for everybody’s mood was mixed. That new life had come to a
land once desolate was a blessing, but there were many that wondered
what sort of life, what manner of world the young girl would see when
she grew older.

More newborns followed in the coming years. Tharion wondered what type
of people they would grow into. He passed on Alith’s edict that all
youngsters were to be raised in the traditions of the Anars and when old
enough would be trained in the craft of the shadow warrior. They would
learn to hunt and fish, to wield sword and bow, and speak the secret
words of Kurnous. Though there was no present end of the war in sight,
Tharion hoped daily that such endeavour would prove unnecessary. He
wanted nothing more than the children of Elanardris to grow up strong
and full of pride, and in peace.

The new lord of Elanardris also worried what character of person would
be made by this upbringing. Raising children with hate for the druchii
clawed at his conscience, but he had made a promise that the Shadow
King’s teachings would be passed on. The symbols of vengeance and shadow
became the sign of Elanardris. They were painted on cave walls and
carved into the bark of trees. Amulets and brooches were fashioned in
their shape. This concerned Tharion, reminding him of the cults they
fought against, but he could not deny the people their right to express
their fear and their hope, to cling to these symbols in the wake of
Alith’s passing.

The years passed slowly, each brief summer a time of worry when druchii
armies were on the move; every winter a tortuous hardship when food was
scarce and the winds blew cold from the north and the snows heaped upon
the roofs of the bivouacs. Some of the shadow warriors took families,
others vowed to remain alone. They kept vigil over the land of the
Anars, hidden watchers ready to slay at a moment’s notice. Their deadly
skills were little used, the unforgiving mountains as much of a
deterrent to any druchii interest as a wall of spears and a forest of
bows.

With each year the memory of the Shadow King was celebrated with a hunt.
The shadow warriors chased deer through the woods of the mountains, and
offered up a share of their prey to Kurnous and the Shadow King.

With each year, Tharion tried to remember the Shadow King less and Alith
Anar more, but it was difficult. His exploits were told around the
campfires, and as bedtime stories to the youngsters. The elf who had
been a legend while he lived quickly became a myth after his death. Some
of those that lived in Elanardris did not even know that he had a name,
calling him only by his title. Tharion tried to keep alive the memories
of the elf behind the myth, but he sometimes felt like he was swimming
against the tide. These people were desperate and a character out of
fable was more comfort to them than a mortal of flesh and blood who had
once dwelt in the lands they now occupied. It gave them succour to
believe that some spirit watched over them. The more knowing of their
number declared that the Shadow King was a wolf not a shepherd, more
likely to be bringing vengeance in Mirai than he was to be watching over
a flock.

It was a harsh existence but the folk of Elanardris endured, listening
for news of the wider war while they kept themselves hidden. A stability
of sorts grew in the area, the shadow society developing new traditions
and codes, new beliefs and practices. Nobody knew who first coined the
phrase Aesanar – the New People of Anar – but it helped that they had a
name for themselves. Tharion was bestowed the title First Lord of the
Aesanar by the people he ruled, his position a regency for when a new
claimant to the title of Shadow King would emerge. Pragmatic and
resourceful, the Aesanar healed and grew, waiting for the day when one
would arise to lead them back into the war; waiting for the day the
shadow war would begin anew.

In the thirteenth year of the civil war, nine years since the flag of
the Anars had fallen at Dark Fen, that day came.

By firelight the shadow-walkers met once more in the shadows of the old
manse. Tharion had called them together at the request of Casadir. The
shadow-walker had been reluctant to explain why, saying only that he had
met a messenger with important news that they should all hear. Casadir
explained this briefly to the assembled shadow-walkers, and impressed
upon them the need for secrecy.

All turned as one as a dark figure led a horse into the circle of light,
a cloak of raven features upon his back.

‘This is Elthyrior, the raven herald,’ announced Casadir. There were
­scattered whispers; Elthyrior was part of the Shadow King legend. Many
present had met him before, but several had not.

‘Tell us of what you have heard,’ said Casadir, sitting down and waving
a hand to the space on his right. Elthyrior whispered something to his
steed, which wandered out onto what had once been the grand lawn of the
summer garden, and then the raven herald sat cross-legged next to the
shadow-walker.

‘A new power reigns in Anlec,’ the raven herald announced, a statement
greeted with gasps of shock. ‘The druchii talk with reverence of him, a
ruler they call the Witch King.’

‘Who is this Witch King?’ asked Tharion.

‘I do not know,’ said Elthyrior. ‘None that I have questioned or
overheard can say for sure. Some believe it is Hotek, the renegade
priest of Vaul that fled Caledor several years ago. Others believe
Morathi has adopted Prince Alandrian and granted him rule in return for
his slaying of Alith Anar.

‘I am told that he is blessed by all of the cytharai. I have heard that
no weapon can harm him, and he learnt sorcery from Morathi herself. Some
of the druchii say the Witch King will be the scourge that wipes away
their foes and hails the great victory of Nagarythe.’

Elthyrior’s emerald gaze swept across the shadow-walkers, each of them
intent upon his words.

‘We all know that reality and myth can sometimes be blurred, but I have
heard grave claims about this Witch King,’ Elthyrior warned. ‘Perhaps a
more telling question would be “what is the Witch King?”. “His gaze
shreds skin and flesh from bones”, one captive told me. “He burns with
the fire of our hatred”, said another. All say one thing: he is the true
ruler of Nagarythe and soon he will reign over all of Ulthuan!’

‘Camp tales and fireside stories, no doubt,’ said Tharion. ‘Perhaps
Morathi fears the war has turned against her, and has conjured up this
Witch King to instil fear and obedience in her troops.’

‘While there may be some truth to that, I fear the best we can hope for
is exaggeration,’ said Elthyrior. ‘So widespread is this rumour, and so
vehemently is it believed, I have no doubt that some new druchii lord
has emerged to lead the armies of Nagarythe.’

‘What can we do about it?’ asked Anraneir. ‘Tharion, would you lead the
shadow army against this new tyrant?’

‘If it is agreed that we will act, then I will lead,’ said the First
Lord. ‘But I am no Shadow King. I do not claim to have the strength and
the cunning to outwit such a foe.’

‘Without the Shadow King, are we truly the shadow army?’ asked Yrain,
newly granted the title of shadow-walker. She looked at her comrades
with an impassioned expression. ‘The Shadow King has power, to rally the
weak and put terror in the hearts of the druchii. Does it matter who
bears the title?’

‘It matters if he cannot deliver,’ said Casadir. ‘I would not take up
that mantle. To be a leader is one thing, to be a ruler is another. The
Shadow King must be more than these things. He must be wrath and
vengeance, unyielding and eternal. To be a living symbol, an incarnation
of what we all fight for, what we all believe in…’

‘Is there any elf here who could be such a thing?’ Tharion asked. For a
moment Casadir smiled, a flicker of amusement that soon disappeared. He
shook his head, dismissing any claim he might make.

None answered, each looking at his companions to see if any volunteered.
A few shook their heads, either disappointed by this reaction or
dismissive of the idea that a new Shadow King could be found.

Elthyrior stood up suddenly, hand reaching to his sword. His gaze was
fixed upon something outside the light of the fires, close to the manse
building. Some of the shadow-walkers readied their weapons; others
looked around nervously.

The flames of the campfires flickered, losing strength. One-by-one they
died until only a single flame remained, barely lighting Tharion and
those close to him.

‘What is it?’ hissed Anraneir.

Rustles and panting could be heard coming from the darkness. Golden eyes
flashed in the starlight. The shadow-walkers turned this way and that,
seeking ghostly shapes that appeared and disappeared in a blink of the
eye.

The clouds above the mountains broke, bathing all with the silvery light
of Sariour in full bloom. Where there had been darkness and shadow, now
stood a figure swathed in black, face hidden within a deep hood. It
stood immobile, arms crossed, head bowed.

All around the camp, wolf howls split the air.

‘Who are you?’ Tharion demanded, sword in hand. ‘What do you want?’

‘I am the Shadow King,’ said Alith Anar, pulling back his hood, ‘and I
want vengeance.’
