
NINETEEN 

Malekith’s War

It was too late in the year for Malekith to mount another expedition
into his homeland, and so he spent the winter gathering what troops he
could from the other princes, while all the while the raven heralds
slipped across the border to bring news of what passed in the north.
Such reports were disquieting, for it seemed that now she had revealed
herself as the witch-sorceress she had long been, Morathi had thrown
aside all regard for pretences and now wholly embraced her dark nature.

Nagarythe seethed with activity and to Malekith’s further dismay, when
spring finally came, unsettling word arrived from the colonies that the
same racial ennui that had so beset Ulthuan was now taking hold in the
cities to the east. In response to Malekith’s requests for troops,
Alandrian could only send a fraction of the Naggarothi army from Athel
Toralien; the rest he needed to guard against growing numbers of orcs
moving into Elthin Arvan from the south.

Other fighters joined the prince’s army from Nagarythe; individually and
by company they had cautiously made their way south into Tiranoc,
risking not only the wrath of Morathi but also the ire of the Tiranoc
army guarding the border against any who crossed. Malekith had hoped for
many more, but it seemed as if a good many of his former captains and
lieutenants were content to serve his mother, either in loyalty or out
of fear, while a cadre of princes still faithful to Malekith were
isolated in the mountains of Nagarythe, gathered under the banner of the
lords of House Anar.

Malekith had learned well the lesson of Ealith. He knew that the army
under his command could not march directly from Tiranoc to Anlec, for
the host of Nagarythe would be prepared for such an attack. Yet Malekith
did not let despair grip his counsel, and as he sought for support from
the other princes, he paid especial attention to befriend Haradrin of
Eataine, who had at his command the greatest fleet of the elves and the
staunch Lothern Sea Guard. Malekith still had Indraugnir under his
charge, and with several more dragonships from Lothern he was sure that
he would be able to overpower the Nagarythe fleet. Malekith brooded a
long while on what few advantages he had, and by the time spring began
to thaw the snow in the mountains he had envisioned a bold plan of
action.

It began with the army of Tiranoc forming into hosts not far from the
Naganath. Knowing well that Morathi’s spies and magic would discern such
movement, Malekith hoped to lure the Naggarothi into believing that an
attack was imminent, and thus draw their forces southwards.

In the last days of winter, Malekith rode alone into the Annulii east of
Tor Anroc. He took with him the Circlet of Iron, and headed into the
high peaks. He found himself a sheltered spot and sat upon the ground
out of the ­biting wind. Placing the circlet upon his head, Malekith
closed his eyes and allowed the ancient artefact to direct his mind.

Malekith’s view raced over the plains of Tiranoc, where frost still
clung to the grass. To the Naganath his mind’s eye flew, over the icy
waters into Nagarythe. He saw the armies of Morathi assembling in the
Biannan Moor, and pickets stationed along the length of the river to
watch the movements of the Tiranoc hosts. Westwards he spied an army
encamped about the walls of Galthyr, though the besiegers seemed content
merely to contain Durinne and his army. Further northwards towns and
villages were ransacked for supplies and the cultists presided over
bloody ceremonies in praise of the cytharai.

Then to Anlec came the prince’s vision. In cages of iron throughout the
city great beasts from the mountains prowled and roared: savage
manticores and screeching griffons, many-headed hydras and hissing
chimerae. Around the cages clustered beastmasters with vicious goads and
barbed whips, tormenting their captives and feeding them on raw elf
flesh. Smiths laboured at magically white-hot fires upon armour plates
for the gigantic war beasts, and forged spiked collars with heavy
chains. Leatherworkers fashioned sturdy saddles and harnesses studded
with rivets and adorned with bones.

Around and about the city were grisly altars to the likes of Ereth
Khial, Meneloth, Nethu and other grim deities. Bloodstained chalices
stood upon tables draped with cloths of skin, and braziers sputtered
with bloodied hearts and charring bones. Wretched and crying, lines of
elves in chains and tattered rags were dragged before those savage
sacrificial shrines to be cast upon blazing pyres or shredded with
wicked daggers in praise of hungry gods.

All was watched over by the cruel nobility of Nagarythe. Princes in dark
robes sat upon black destriers draped with silver caparisons, while
masked priests with daubed runes upon their naked skin chanted
supplications and pleas. The stones of the pavements were stained red,
and piles of bones gathered rotting in the gutters to be gnawed upon by
impish familiars and scrawny hounds.

As he turned his gaze upon the central tower, the palace of Aenarion,
Malekith found his view obscured by a great shadow. He heard a
whispering voice: his mother’s. He strained to hear what she was saying,
but could discern nothing but a murmur. The power of the circlet granted
Malekith unprecedented power, and he shuddered to think what unspeakable
pacts his mother had made for her own sorcery to blind him.

The prince sent word to Bel Shanaar that the Phoenix King should move a
greater part of his army to the border. Over the following days Malekith
spied upon the movements of the Naggarothi with the circlet. Once he was
sure that the legions of Nagarythe marched for the border to protect
against attack, Malekith returned to Tor Anroc. He sent swift-flying
message hawks to Lothern, ordering Indraugnir and a sizeable fleet to
set sail and head northwards around the western coast of Ulthuan. Their
course was set for Galthyr. Once more using the crown from the north,
Malekith saw the Naggarothi fleet gathering about the port, expecting an
attack from the sea. More warriors were drawn to the siege, to contest
any landing that might be made.

Guided by secret commands from Malekith the raven heralds sowed fear and
confusion in the midst of the enemy. They attacked supplies and waylaid
companies marching to join the scattered armies. They burned freshly
growing crops in the fields and intercepted messengers riding between
the Naggarothi commanders and Anlec. Their attacks were concentrated to
the west and south, to further the illusion being spun by Malekith’s
manoeuvres.

Malekith’s true attack came not from the west or the south, but from the
east. In small companies, under cover of darkness over the course of
many nights, the prince moved the greater part of his host into the
mountains of Ellyrion. They hid in farms and villages close to the
mountains, supported by food stockpiled by Prince Finudel.

When the first moon of the new spring rose, Malekith rode to Dragon
Pass, the Caladh Enru, two hundred miles south of Anlec. There he
unfurled the banner of Anlec and rallied his army for the attack.

Many thousands strong numbered the host, and amongst them rode princes
of Nagarythe and Tiranoc, Ellyrion and Eataine. Sapherian wizards had
joined the venture, Thyriol amongst them. As Malekith had foreseen, the
possibility of him creating an alliance with Ellyrion had not been
envisaged by Morathi and the attack came as a total surprise. In a
single day, the garrison of Arir Tonraeir at the western end of Dragon
Pass was overrun, and the army of Malekith marched for Anlec.

The army turned northwards, past the twin peaks of Anul Nagrain and
across the river Haruth into the plains of Khiraval. Here there had once
been farms and pastures for the herds of Nagarythe, but now all had
fallen into ruin under the rule of Morathi and the cults. The tumbled
remains of abandoned farmsteads jutted from the overgrown fields like
broken teeth, and packs of ferocious wolves and monstrous bears had come
down out of the mountains to claim Khiraval as their own. The army
marched along a highway broken by weeds and marred by cracks and holes.
It took them through deserted villages, the empty doors and windows
gaping at them like accusing black eyes. The more he saw of what had
befallen his proud kingdom, the greater was Malekith’s ire.

The Naggarothi commanders in the south were now caught in a horrifying
situation. If they were to move north to counter Malekith’s attack, they
would turn their backs on the Tiranoc hosts at the border. In the end
they opted to keep their positions, trusting to the army and defences of
Anlec to fend off Malekith’s force.

With news coming from the raven heralds that the way ahead to Anlec was
clear, Malekith and his army pressed on. Across Khiraval and then
north-east towards Anlec through the muddy fens of Menruir they marched.
Within fifteen days of crossing into Nagarythe, Malekith’s host reached
mighty Anlec, the immense capital.

Malekith trusted to the valour of his followers and the poor training of
the defenders, who for the most part he reckoned to be wild cultists and
not the professional warriors he had artfully drawn far to the south.
There was no time to waste, for it would not be long before companies
were brought back from Galthyr, and the captains in the south realised
that Bel Shanaar had no desire for a costly assault across the Naganath.
There was no time for siege to be set, nor any reason to expend energy
on pointless parley.

As he had so often done before, Malekith struck hard and fast in his
attempt to secure victory.

As the army of Malekith arranged itself for the attack, a clear spring
sky bathed the black marble buildings of Anlec, glimmering on a coat of
late frost. Silver and black banners snapped in the cold wind from atop
the many towers around the high walls, while sentries patrolled back and
forth clad in blackened scale and golden helms. The fortress-city
reverberated to the tramp of booted feet and the scrape of metal as
regiments practised drills in the open squares. The cries of their
lieutenants echoed from the stone walls and mingled with the crackle of
sacrificial pyres and screams of howling prisoners.

Fearsome was the citadel, for it had been built by Aenarion with the aid
of Caledor Dragontamer and was so wrought that no approach was left
undefended. Eighty high towers and many miles of thick walls surrounded
the city, yet only three gates controlled access in and out, each
surrounded by bastions filled with war machines and troops.

The approach to each gate was fraught with peril, for walls extended
outwards from the curtain of Anlec and provided points from which the
defenders could shoot upon the road for half a mile. Isolated towers,
each surrounded by stake-filled ditches, were built in a ring of outer
defences, each positioned so that its war engines could cover the next.

Within the circle of towers there was dug a great moat, fifty paces
wide. No mere water filled this obstacle, but magical green flames that
hissed and crackled fiercely. Only one drawbridge crossed the fire ditch
on each road, and this was protected by a keep every bit as fearsome as
the gatehouses of the city.

For all the forbidding defences of Anlec, Malekith showed no fear. He
sat astride his steed at the front of his army, clad in his golden
armour, the circlet of sorcery upon his head, Avanuir blazing in his
hand. Behind him were two thousand of his knights, veterans all,
hardened in the colonies to the east and led by captains who had fought
with Malekith in the chill northlands. They were garbed in golden scale
armour and cloaked with purple and black. Their lances glowed with
enchantments and runes of protection burned upon their shields.
Grim-faced, they eyed the dark citadel of Anlec without dread.

To the north and south of the knights were Malekith’s companies of
spears, seven thousand in all. Led by Yeasir, they formed up into ranks
ten deep, pennants fluttering above them, the sounds of silver horns
ringing out the orders. Yeasir strode back and forth along the line,
reminding them that they fought for the true ruler of Anlec, exhorting
them to show no mercy and to stay firm in the face of their despicable
foes. Behind the spears were the lines of archers, three thousand of
them, their black bows strung, their quivers heavy with arrows.

Further to the north rode the reaver knights of Ellyrion. Prince Finudel
and Princess Athielle had eagerly offered to join Malekith’s host, and
they trotted forwards at the head of two thousand of their followers. In
his hand Finudel held Cadrathi, the starblade lance his father had
wielded in battle alongside Aenarion. Athielle waved forwards her troop
with the shining white blade Amreir, the winterblade that her mother had
used to slay the daemon prince Akturon. White and blue banners flew
above the cavalry, emblazoned with images of golden horses. The
Ellyrians’ steeds were eager, stamping and neighing, and the reaver
knights chatted amiably amongst themselves, showing no sign of concern
at the imposing fortress confronting them.

The southern wing of Malekith’s army was led by Bathinair, prince of
Yvresse. He sat astride a monstrous griffon, taken from the mountains of
the Annulii as a hatchling and raised to be his war mount in Tor
Yvresse.

Redclaw was its name and it was a majestic beast. Its body was that of
an immense hunting cat, thrice the size of a horse, patterned with black
and white stripes. Its head was that of an eagle, with a high crest of
red and blue feathers, and its forelegs were as the talons of some
mighty bird of prey, with crimson claws like curved swords. Two wide
wings of grey and black feathers swept out from its broad shoulders,
between which Bathinair sat mounted upon a throne of white wood, the
banners of Yvresse and his house fluttering from its back. He held the
spear of ice, Nagrain, its silvered shaft gleaming in the morning light,
its tip a blazing crystal stronger than any metal. Redclaw threw back
its head and gave a deafening screech, and clawed at the earth in
anticipation of the hunt.

Bathinair had not come alone from Yvresse and with him stood another two
thousand warriors armed with long spears and carrying blue shields, clad
in white robes of mourning.

Charill, one of the princes of Chrace, had come also. He stood upon the
back of a chariot pulled by four majestic lions from the mountains of
his lands. Each was the size of a horse, and as white as snow. They
roared and snarled, pacing eagerly in their harnesses. He wielded the
fabled axe Achillar, whose double-headed blade crackled with lightning
in his hands. Beside him stood his son, Lorichar, bearing the banner of
Tor Achare: the head of a lion in silver thread upon a scarlet
background. Both wore long cloaks of lion fur, edged with black leather
and hung with many jewelled pendants. Other nobles upon lion chariots
flanked the prince, each dour warrior armed with axe and spear and clad
in golden mail.

With them came huntsmen from the mountains: blue-eyed warriors with long
locks of golden hair bound into plaits, with lion pelts upon their
shoulders. They wore silvered breastplates with lion designs, and short
kilts threaded with gold. The lion warriors carried heavy axes of
differing designs, etched with runes and hung with braided tassels.
Their demeanour was as fierce as their namesakes, and they gripped their
weapons with eager determination.

Lastly came the princes of Saphery: Merneir and Eltreneth, led by
Thyriol. They were mounted upon pegasi: winged horses taken from the
highest peaks of the Annulii. Glittering capes of many colours streamed
from their shoulders and each bore sword and staff that gleamed with
magical power. They circled above the host of Malekith, the sun gleaming
from the golden harnesses of their flying steeds.

Malekith saw that all were arrayed ready for battle, and his heart
soared at the sight. Not for centuries had he commanded such a host, and
the call of his blood sang within his veins. For good or ill, the
fortunes of the day would resound down through history, and his name
would be recounted for generations to come. The prince was not content
merely with posterity, though, and was determined to win victory. He
ordered the army to a halt just outside of bowshot from the closest
towers and wheeled his steed to face the army. Raising Avanuir above his
head, Malekith called out to his army, his voice ringing clearly the
length and breadth of the host.

‘Look upon this citadel of dread!’ he cried, pointing to Anlec with his
magical blade, sapphire fire licking along its length. ‘Here once hope
sprang for our people, and here now glowers our doom! In these halls the
ghosts of our fathers reside, and how they must howl at the sight of
seeing what was once so great now brought so low! Here was lit the
bright beacon of war by Aenarion, now a blackened flame of malice and
domination! We are here to extinguish that baleful flare and restore
anew the light of the phoenix! You may look and see the unending walls
and the cruel towers, but I do not. The might of Anlec is not in her
stones and mortar, but in the blood of her defenders and the courage of
their hearts. No such strength remains in this benighted city, for all
vigour and honour has been crushed from her by the choking chains of
misery and slavery.’

The prince then turned his sword upon his army and its point swept along
the long rows of warriors.

‘Here I see the true spirit of our people!’ Malekith declared. ‘None
come here by bond or bribe, but have marched forth for great and noble
cause. We would not see such dark cities across our realms, and all here
know in their spirit that today we shall halt the spread of the
malignant shadow. Fell Charill! Noble Finudel! Majestic Thyriol! Know
these names, and be proud to fight beside them, as I am. In time all
here shall be remembered and their names shall be lauded. Unending shall
be the appreciation of our people, and cherished shall be the memories
of those that fight here this day! Look to your left and look to your
right, and fix in your mind the face of your brothers-in-battle. You
shall see no weakness there, only determination and bravery. Each here
today claims his right to be a prince, for reward comes to those willing
to risk all, and never have such dignified companions been assembled
since the time of my father. Heroes one-and-all, you are, and as heroes
shall the gods heap their praises upon you.’

Malekith then raised his sword in front of his face in salute.

‘And forget not that it is I, Prince Malekith, who leads you!’ he
shouted. ‘I am the true lord of Anlec! Scion of Nagarythe! Son of
Aenarion! I know not despair, nor fear, nor defeat! With this blade I
carved a new kingdom to the east. By my hand our people made grand
alliance with the dwarfs. These eyes have looked upon the Dark Gods and
did not flinch. Monsters and horrors I have faced and bested, and today
will be no different. We shall win, because where I lead, victory
follows. We shall win, because it is my destiny to triumph. We shall
win, because I will it!’

Malekith then stood in his stirrups and raised Avanuir high above his
head. A great cry erupted from the throats of his warriors, shaking the
ground. Malekith waved the army forwards.

‘Glory awaits!’ he cried.
