
FOUR 

The Council of Princes

‘Malekith has been ousted from power.’

Imrik could scarcely believe the messenger sent by Bel Shanaar. The
Tiranocii stood patiently in the great hall of Tor Caled, addressing
Caledrian and his brothers.

‘Bel Shanaar knows this as a fact?’ said Dorien.

‘Even now, Malekith has fled Nagarythe with a body of loyal warriors and
takes sanctuary in Tor Anroc,’ said the herald. ‘Some believe the
architect of this rebellion to be Eoloran Anar, a dissident who lives in
the mountains in the east of Nagarythe.’

‘Impossible,’ said Imrik. ‘All should know Eoloran Anar, standard bearer
of Aenarion. His loyalty to Ulthuan is beyond question. Bel Shanaar
knows him as an ally.’

‘Which is why the Phoenix King does not pay heed to these rumours,’ the
messenger replied smoothly.

‘Though this is distressing, I cannot see how this involves my kingdom,’
said Caledrian. ‘Have we not been here before, and did not Malekith
resolve the situation for himself?’

‘With this coup there has been resurgence in the activity of the cults,’
said the herald. ‘There are riots and burning in cities across Ulthuan.
Several princes and lesser nobles have been murdered or taken hostage.’

‘They have bided their time,’ said Imrik. ‘They waited for the others to
become lax.’

‘It seems so,’ said the herald. ‘The Phoenix King wishes this renewed
unrest to be dealt with swiftly. The proposal to form a united army
under his banner will be revisited. However, this time there will be no
delays. All princes are instructed to gather at the Shrine of Asuryan on
the Isle of the Flame, to appoint the commander of this army. You are to
set out at once.’

‘Not I,’ said Imrik, looking at Caledrian. His brother opened his mouth
to speak but Imrik talked across him. ‘I have been invited to Chrace by
Koradrel and I will go. You have avoided the other princes for too
long.’

Caledrian looked as if he would argue, but Imrik glared at his brother
to forestall any complaint. The ruler of Caledor reluctantly nodded and
turned to Thyrinor.

‘I will go to the Isle of the Flame to attend this council, and you will
attend me,’ he said.

‘I have no objection,’ said Thyrinor. ‘I have never seen inside the
Shrine of Asuryan. It will be a privilege to gaze upon the sacred flame
that blessed Aenarion.’

‘I leave tomorrow,’ said Imrik. ‘We can ride together to the coast. I
will take ship to the north and you to the east.’

‘We will send word of the proceedings,’ said Caledrian.

‘Please do not,’ replied Imrik. ‘I am not interested. History simply
repeats itself. I will be in the mountains.’

Caledrian frowned at this news.

‘But should I need your aid, what will I do?’ he said. ‘No messenger
will find you.’

‘That is my intent,’ said Imrik. ‘You will have to deal with this,
brother. I cannot help you.’

Arrangements were made with Bel Shanaar’s herald, who departed that
evening with Caledrian’s acceptance of his position at the council.
Imrik spent the night with his family, promising Tythanir the head of a
hydra as a gift on his return. In the morning, he left the city with
Caledrian and Thyrinor, pleased to have avoided embroilment in further
intrigue that did not concern him.

The chatter around the horseshoe of tables and chairs in the shrine was
of the delay in the arrival of Bel Shanaar and Malekith. Elodhir had
arrived from Tor Anroc with the news that his father and the prince of
Nagarythe would follow shortly, but even the heir to Tiranoc’s throne
was now perturbed by their failure to arrive.

‘What if the cultists know something of what they plan?’ Elodhir said to
Thyrinor.

The two of them stood by a table near to the entrance to the pyramidal
shrine, the multicoloured pillar of fire known as the flame of Asuryan
burning at the centre of the temple. Other princes and their aides had
seated themselves in preparation for the council, as they had done
several times over the last few days. Seated directly in front of the
sacred flames was the high priest Mianderin, his staff of office held
across his lap. Other priests moved around the tables filling goblets
with wine or water, and offering fruits and confectioneries.

‘I would not fear,’ Thyrinor said as soothingly as possible. ‘Your
father is the Phoenix King, and Prince Malekith the most accomplished
warrior in Ulthuan. It is most likely fresh information from Nagarythe
that delays them.’

‘You are right,’ said Elodhir. He was about to return to his seat when a
young priest entered the shrine.

‘A ship bearing the flag of Tiranoc draws in to the wharf,’ the elf
announced before taking position with his fellows along the white stone
walls.

There was a hubbub of discussion and Thyrinor joined Caledrian at the
seats and table set aside for the Caledorian representatives.

‘About time,’ said Caledrian. ‘It is probably for the best that Imrik
did not come. These delays would have frustrated him to the verge of
violence, I suspect.’

‘And I expect much wrangling to be the business of the next few days,’
replied Thyrinor. ‘My cousin’s absence has been remarked upon several
times. There are those who think he should be here to receive the
nomination as general.’

‘He made his opinion clear on that before,’ said Caledrian. ‘If he
wishes to have no association with this campaign, I cannot blame him and
will respect his wishes. Caledor has taken much from him already.’

‘Dorien and I spent almost as much time fighting in the colonies,’ said
Thyrinor.

Caledrian smiled and patted his cousin reassuringly on the arm.

‘And it is remembered,’ said the prince. ‘Yet it was Imrik my father
named as the sword bearer of Caledor, and that is a weighty burden to
bear.’

The two of them fell silent as new figures appeared at the shrine door.

Malekith entered and walked behind the table reserved for Bel Shanaar,
earning himself frowns from Mianderin and a few of the princes. Thyrinor
felt Caledrian’s grip on his arm tighten. Something was amiss; Thyrinor
had felt it from the moment Malekith had appeared. The Naggarothi prince
was flanked by two knights who carried wrapped bundles in their hands.
Malekith stood leaning on the table with gauntleted fists, and stared
balefully at the assembled council.

‘Weakness prevails,’ spat the prince of Nagarythe. Thyrinor shuddered at
the venom in Malekith’s voice. ‘Weakness grips this island like a child
squeezing the juices from an over-ripened fruit. Selfishness has driven
us to inaction, and now the time to act may have passed. Complacency
rules where princes should lead. You have allowed the cults of depravity
to ­flourish, and done nothing. You have looked to foreign shores and
counted your gold, and allowed thieves to sneak into your towns and
cities to steal away your children. And you have been content to allow a
traitor to wear the Phoenix Crown!’

With this last declaration there were gasps and shouts of horror from
the princes. Malekith’s knights opened their bundles and tossed the
contents upon the table: the crown and feathered cloak of Bel Shanaar.

Elodhir leapt to his feet, fist raised.

‘Where is my father?’ he demanded.

‘What has happened to the Phoenix King?’ cried Finudel.

‘He is dead!’ snarled Malekith. ‘Killed by his weakness of spirit.’

Panic choked Thyrinor, his throat tightening against the shout of dismay
that rose from him. He looked to Caledrian, whose face had paled, jaw
and fists clenched tightly.

‘That cannot be so!’ exclaimed Elodhir, his voice strangled and fraught
with anger.

‘It is,’ said Malekith with a sigh, his demeanour suddenly one of
sorrow. ‘I promised to root out this vileness, and was shocked to find
that my mother was one of its chief architects. From that moment on, I
decided none would be above suspicion. If Nagarythe had become so
polluted, so too perhaps had Tiranoc. My arrival here was delayed by
investigations, when it was brought to my attention that those close to
the Phoenix King might be under the sway of the hedonists. My inquiries
were circumspect but thorough, and imagine my disappointment, nay
disbelief, when I uncovered evidence that implicated the Phoenix King
himself.’

‘What evidence?’ demanded Elodhir.

‘Certain talismans and fetishes found in the Phoenix King’s chambers,’
said Malekith calmly. ‘Believe me when I say that I felt as you did. I
could not bring myself to think that Bel Shanaar, our wisest prince
chosen to rule by members of this council, would be brought so low. Not
one to act rashly, I decided to confront Bel Shanaar with this evidence,
in the hope that there was some misunderstanding or trickery involved.’

‘And he denied it of course?’ asked Bathinair.

Thyrinor could not comprehend what he was hearing. He moved to rise to
his feet, but Caledrian pushed him back to his chair.

‘Watch the knights,’ Caledrian hissed in his ear.

Thyrinor turned his attention to the black-clad knights of Anlec, who
had stepped back and now filled the doorway with their armoured forms,
dark eyes glaring from the visors of their high helms, arms crossed over
their carved breastplates.

‘He admitted guilt by his deeds,’ explained Malekith. ‘It seems that a
few of my company were tainted by this affliction and in league with the
usurpers of Nagarythe. Even as I confided in them, they warned Bel
Shanaar of my discoveries. That night, no more than seven nights ago, I
went to his chambers to make my accusations face-to-face. I found him
dead, his lips stained with poison. He had taken the coward’s way and
ended his own life rather than suffer the shame of inquiry. By his own
hand he denied us insight into the plans of the cults. Fearing that he
would not keep their secrets to himself, he took them to his grave.’

‘My father would do no such thing, he is loyal to Ulthuan and its
people!’ shouted Elodhir.

Thyrinor was in agreement, but a glance at his cousin showed that
Caledrian was not paying attention to Malekith, his eyes instead roving
across the other princes, gauging their reactions.

‘Bathinair is with Malekith,’ Caledrian whispered, quietly pushing his
chair away from the table.

‘What do you mean?’ Thyrinor whispered back, but received no reply.

‘I confess to having deep sympathy with you, Elodhir,’ Malekith was
saying. ‘Have I not been deceived by my own mother? Do I not feel the
same betrayal and heartache that now wrenches at your spirit?’

‘I must admit I also find this somewhat perturbing,’ said Thyriol. ‘It
seems… convenient.’

‘And so, in death, Bel Shanaar continues to divide us, as was his
intent,’ countered Malekith. ‘Discord and anarchy will reign as we argue
back and forth the rights and wrongs of what has occurred. While we
debate endlessly, the cults will grow in power and seize your lands from
under your noses, and we will have lost everything. They are united,
while we are divided. There is no time for contemplation, or reflection,
there is only time for action.’

‘What would you have us do?’ asked Chyllion, one of the princes of
Cothique.

‘We must choose a new Phoenix King!’ declared Bathinair before Malekith
could answer.

Voices erupted across the shrine and princes stood up, gesturing madly
at one another. Malekith watched the tumult without emotion. Thyrinor
followed his gaze, which was fixed upon the sacred flame.

‘I really wish Imrik was here,’ Thyrinor admitted.

‘Cease this noise!’ roared Caledrian, getting to his feet. ‘Be calm!’

His shout stilled the shrine.

‘We will not find the truth with this anarchy,’ Caledrian continued in
quieter tones.

‘Does Caledrian put himself forward for the Phoenix Throne?’ said
Bathinair.

The prince of Caledor was stunned by the suggestion.

‘I have no such ambition,’ he said, looking pointedly at Malekith. ‘Yet
if there are others here who would stake such a claim, it should be made
plain and we should consider it.’

‘Is that your intent?’ asked Thyriol with a glance at the other princes.

‘If the council wishes it,’ Malekith said with a shrug.

‘We cannot choose a new Phoenix King now,’ said Elodhir. ‘Such a matter
cannot be resolved quickly, and even if such a thing were possible, we
are not our full number.’

‘Nagarythe will not wait,’ said Malekith, slamming his fist onto the
table. ‘The cults are too strong and come spring they will control the
army of Anlec. My lands will be lost and they will march upon yours!’

‘You would have us choose you to lead us?’ said Thyriol quietly.

‘Yes,’ Malekith replied without hesitation or embarrassment. ‘There are
none here who were willing to act until my return. I am the son of
Aenarion, his chosen heir, and if the revelation of Bel Shanaar’s
treachery is not enough to convince you of the foolishness of choosing
from another line, then look to my other achievements. Bel Shanaar chose
me to act as his ambassador to the dwarfs, for I was a close friend with
their High King.

‘Our future lies not solely upon these shores, but in the wider world. I
have been to the colonies across the oceans, and fought to build and
protect them. Though they come from the bloodstock of Lothern or Tor
Elyr or Tor Anroc, they are a new people, and it is to me they first
look now, not to you. None here are as experienced in war as am I. Bel
Shanaar was a ruler steeped in wisdom and peace, for all that he has
failed us at the last, but peace and wisdom will not prevail against
darkness and zealotry.’

‘What of Imrik?’ suggested Finudel. ‘He is every bit the general and
fought out in the new world also.’

‘Imrik?’ said Malekith, his voice dripping with scorn. ‘Where is Imrik
now, in this time of our greatest need? He skulks in Chrace with his
cousin, hunting monsters! Would you have Ulthuan ruled by an elf who
hides in the mountains like a petulant, spoilt child? When Imrik called
for an army to be gathered against Nagarythe, did you pay him heed? No!
Only when I raised the banner did you fall over each other in your
enthusiasm.’

Thyrinor was so incensed by the accusation, words failed him. Before he
could speak, another prince was making his voice heard.

‘Be careful of what you say, your arrogance does you a disservice,’
warned Haradrin.

‘I say these things not as barbs to your pride,’ explained Malekith,
unclenching his fists and sitting down. ‘I say them to show you what you
already know; in your hearts you would gratefully follow where I lead.’

‘I still say that this council cannot make such an important decision on
a whim,’ said Elodhir. ‘My father lies dead, in circumstances yet to be
fully explained, and you would have us hand over the Phoenix Crown to
you?’

‘He has a point, Malekith,’ said Haradrin.

‘A point?’ screamed Malekith as he surged to his feet, knocking over the
table and sending the cloak and crown upon it flying through the air. ‘A
point? Your dithering will see you all cast out, your families enslaved
and your people burning upon ten thousand pyres! It has been more than a
thousand years since I bent my knee to this council’s first, wayward
decision and saw Bel Shanaar take what Aenarion had promised to me. For
a thousand years, I have been content to watch your families grow and
prosper, and squabble amongst yourselves like children, while I and my
kin bled on battlefields on the other side of the world. I trusted you
all to remember the legacy of my father, and ignored the cries of
anguish that rang in my blood; for it was in the interest of all that we
were united. Now it is time to unite behind me! I do not lie to you, I
shall be a harsh ruler at times, but I will reward those who serve me
well, and when peace reigns again we shall all enjoy the spoils of our
battles. Who here has more right to the throne than I do? Who here–’

‘Malekith!’ barked Mianderin, pointing towards the prince’s waist. In
his tirade, Malekith’s waving arms had thrown his cloak back over his
shoulder. ‘Why do you wear your sword in this holy place? It is
forbidden in the most ancient laws of this temple. Remove it at once.’

Thyrinor felt Caledrian tense next to him. Remembering his cousin’s
words, the dragon prince moved his gaze to the Anlec knights. They too
had weapons at their hips, their gauntleted hands upon the hilts.

Malekith stood frozen in place, almost comic with his arms outstretched.
He looked down at his belt and the sheathed sword that hung there. He
gripped his sword’s hilt and drew it free. The Naggarothi prince looked
up at the others with eyes narrowed, his face illuminated by magical
blue fire from the blade.

‘Enough words!’ he spat.

Thyrinor sat rigid, transfixed by the glow of fabled Avanuir in
Malekith’s fist. Caledrian moved behind his chair, grabbing hold of the
back in both hands. Thyrinor felt the waves of magic flowing from
Malekith’s blade, mixing with the mystical draught that poured from the
sacred flame, tinged with an aura that now spread from Thyriol.

‘You were overlooked before,’ said the mage, holding out his hands in a
placating gesture. ‘I bear in part the responsibility for that choice.
Let us do nothing hasty, and consider again our positions.’

‘It is my right to be Phoenix King,’ growled Malekith. ‘It is not yours
to give, so I will gladly take it.’

‘Traitor!’ screamed Elodhir, leaping across the table in front of him,
­scattering goblets and plates. There was uproar as princes and priests
shouted and shrieked.

The knights started forwards and Caledrian leapt to meet the closest,
crashing his chair into the Naggarothi’s helmed head to send the knight
slamming against the wall. Out of instinct, Thyrinor rose to his feet
and reached to his belt, but there was no sword there, for all the
princes save Malekith had obeyed the strictures of Asuryan.

Elodhir dashed across the shrine, and was halfway upon Malekith when
Bathinair intercepted him, sending both of them tumbling down in a
welter of robes and rugs. Elodhir punched the Yvressian prince, who
reeled back. With a snarl, Bathinair reached into his robes and pulled
out a curved blade, no longer than a finger, and slashed at Elodhir. Its
blade caught the prince’s throat and his lifeblood fountained across the
exposed flagstones.

The knight Caledrian had attacked recovered quickly, deflecting the
prince’s next blow with a raised arm before shoving the Caledorian
against a table. In a moment, the knight’s sword was in his hand.

Confusion reigned. As Bathinair crouched panting over the body of
Elodhir, figures appeared at the archway behind Malekith; more
black-armoured knights of Anlec. The priests and princes who had been
running for the arch slipped and collided with each other in their haste
to stop their flight. The knights had blood-slicked blades in the hands
and advanced with sinister purpose.

Thyrinor launched himself at the warrior confronting his cousin,
tackling him to the ground. The knight swung an armoured fist, stunning
Thyrinor with the blow. He staggered back, vision spinning as the knight
surged to his feet and loomed over Caledrian. Past his cousin, he saw
the mage, Thyriol, smashed to the ground by an armoured fist while the
other princes tried to wrest weapons from the Naggarothi knights.

Malekith walked slowly through the melee as his knights cut and hacked
at the princes around him, his eyes never leaving the sacred flame in
the centre of the chamber. Screams and howls echoed from the walls.
Thyrinor threw himself groggily at the closest knight, grasping hold of
his sword arm as it descended, trying to twist the weapon free.

The knight’s elbow struck Thyrinor on the chin, sending him sprawling.
The distraction gave Caledrian time to recover himself, holding the
chair in front of him as a shield. The knight’s sword hacked through the
chair in a shower of splinters, Caledrian reeling back from the blow.

Out of the melee, Haradrin ran towards Malekith, a captured sword raised
above his head. With a contemptuous sneer, the prince of Nagarythe
stepped aside from Haradrin’s wild swing and thrust his own sword into
Haradrin’s gut. He stood there a moment, the princes staring deep into
each other’s eyes, until a trickle of blood spilled from Haradrin’s lips
and he collapsed to the floor.

Malekith let the sword fall from his fingers with the body rather than
wrench it free, and continued his pacing towards the sacred fires.

‘Asuryan will not accept you!’ cried Mianderin, falling to his knees in
front of Malekith, his hands clasped in pleading. ‘You have spilt blood
in his sacred temple! We have not cast the proper enchantments to
protect you from the flames. You cannot do this!’

‘So?’ spat the prince. ‘I am Aenarion’s heir. I do not need your
witchery to protect me.’

Mianderin snatched at Malekith’s hand but the prince tore his fingers
from the haruspex’s grasp.

‘I no longer listen to the protestations of priests,’ said Malekith, and
kicked Mianderin aside.

As Thyrinor lunged again, the knight turned, sword swinging. The blade’s
tip scored across Thyrinor’s chest and arm, spraying blood. With a
wounded cry, Thyrinor fell to the ground, clasping his good hand to the
injured limb. Through the haze of pain, he saw Caledrian seize the
knight from behind, wrapping an arm around his throat.

The knight flailed but could not dislodge the Caledorian prince.
Thyrinor tried to stand, but his legs gave way and he slumped back to
the flagstones. With his other hand, Caledrian wrested the sword from
the knight’s grip, the weapon clattering to the floor.

A shadow loomed up behind Thyrinor’s cousin. He tried to shout a
warning, but was too late.

Blood fountained as another knight hacked Caledrian’s head from his body
with one sweep of his sword. The first knight recovered his weapon and
turned on Thyrinor.

Unable to defend himself, he rolled away from the blow, trailing blood,
a cry of pain wrenched from his lips. He dived under a table, which
shuddered a moment later from an impact. Between armoured legs, Thyrinor
glimpsed bloodied bodies on the ground. Entranced by the slaughter, he
turned his gaze up and saw Malekith.

His hands held out, palms upwards in supplication, the Naggarothi prince
walked forwards and stepped into the flames.

A moment of silence and stillness engulfed the shrine and every pair of
eyes turned to the sacred fire. The flame of Asuryan burned paler and
paler, moving from a deep blue to a brilliant white. At its heart could
be seen the silhouette of Malekith, his arms still outstretched.

Thyrinor heard a dull rumble, as of thunder, which returned with greater
ferocity. The floor trembled beneath him and motes of mortar dust
sprinkled down from the ceiling. Pieces of tile pattered onto the table
above him and shattered on the flagstones.

With a lurch that flung Thyrinor into a table leg, the ground heaved.
Stones erupted across the paved floor, hurling broken fragments. Prince,
priest and knight alike were tossed around by the great tumult. Chairs
were flung across the floor and tables toppled. Plaster cracked upon the
walls and fell in large slabs from the ceiling. Wide cracks tore through
the tiles underfoot and a rift three paces wide opened up along the
eastern wall, sending up a cloud of dust and rock that choked Thyrinor.

With a thunderous clap, the holy flame blazed, filling the room with
white light. Within, Malekith collapsed to his knees and grabbed at his
face. He flung back his head and screamed as the flames consumed him;
his howl of anguish reverberated around the shrine, echoing and growing
in volume with every passing moment.

The pain of that cry pierced Thyrinor’s heart, a shrill wail of agony so
sickening, so filled with rage and frustration, it twisted his gut and
gnawed a path into his mind, where it would dwell forever. The withering
figure silhouetted within the flames pushed himself slowly to his feet
and hurled himself from their depths.

Malekith’s smoking and charred body crashed to the ground, igniting a
rug and sending ashen dust billowing. Blackened flesh fell away in lumps
amidst cooling droplets of molten armour. He reached outwards with a
hand, and then collapsed. His clothes had been burnt away and his flesh
eaten down to the bone in places. His face was a mask of black and red,
his dark eyes lidless and staring. Steam rose from burst veins as the
prince of Nagarythe shuddered and then fell still, laid to ruin by the
judgement of Asuryan.

The knights rushed to their prince’s aid, while the bloodied and
battered princes took what shelter they could as debris continued to
fall around them. Lifting up the body of their master, the knights
pushed towards the entrance. Several princes tried to bar their escape
and were swiftly cut down, their blood spilling onto the dusty
flagstones.

Thyrinor staggered out from under the table, and witnessed a scene of
stomach-wrenching carnage. Bodies and limbs, of princes and priests,
littered the floor. Pools of blood and piles of gore were slick
underfoot as he numbly paced around the shrine room looking for
survivors.

‘So many killed,’ he muttered, staring into dead face after dead face.

The princes of Ulthuan were slain. The elite of elven nobility lay
dismembered and torn all about Thyrinor and he wept; for what had
happened, for what he saw and what he feared would next come to pass.
