
twelve 

Dark Fen

As Elthyrior had predicted, the druchii were intent on subjugating all
of Ulthuan. Over the course of the following winter Anlec strengthened
its grip on Nagarythe, pushing back those factions opposed to Morathi’s
return. Elanardris again became a safe haven for these dissidents,
including princes and captains. Thousands of Naggarothi warriors made
camp in the foothills of the mountains. Durinne, lord of the port of
Galthyr, resisted for the whole of the winter, but fresh forces besieged
the city when the snows began to thaw and the druchii were victorious.
They took many ships that had sought winter harbour, and with this fleet
nowhere on Ulthuan was beyond their reach.

By mid-spring, the armies of the druchii marched. With Tiranoc divided,
they were able to control the passes eastwards and advanced into
Ellyrion. Their navy prowled the coast to the north and west, only kept
from the shores of Caledor and Eataine by their fear of the powerful
fleet at Lothern. All the while, the Anars expected the fury of the
druchii to fall upon Elanardris, yet the blow never came. Morathi,
perhaps out of arrogance, saw no threat from the mountains and was
determined to subjugate the other kingdoms as swiftly as possible. The
questioning of commanders captured by Anar raids confirmed as much: when
Ulthuan was under Morathi’s control, she would have time enough to deal
with the Anars.

The Anars led sorties into the rest of Nagarythe, but were unable to
mount any kind of meaningful offensive. Wary of being surrounded or
leaving Elanardris unguarded, Eoloran and Eothlir could not bring their
full strength against the druchii. Thousands of refugees had fled into
the mountains around the Anars’ lands. Food and other resources were
scarce, and so the Anars fought a guerrilla war, hitting the druchii
columns as they marched to Tiranoc, then withdrawing before their foes
gathered their strength.

In this time, the Shadows were reformed, with Alith as their leader.
Their numbers swelled to several hundred of the most deadly warriors in
Elanardris, and Eoloran tasked them with disrupting the druchii as much
as possible.

Under Alith’s leadership, the Shadows terrorised their foes. Driven on
by his memories of the Khainite camp and the occupation of Tor Anroc,
Alith was merciless. The Shadows did not fight battles. Instead, they
crept into camps and killed warriors in their sleep. They raided
villages supplying the druchii armies and destroyed food stores and
burnt down the homes of those that supported Morathi. Nobles loyal to
Anlec soon began to fear for their lives as Alith and his Shadows hunted
them down, slaying them upon the dark roads or breaking into their
castles to kill them and slaughter their families.

It was while returning from an attack on Galthyr, during which the
Shadows burnt half a dozen ships in the harbour with their crews still
aboard, that Alith next met Elthyrior. A year had passed since the
massacre at the shrine, and for all the psychological damage the Anars
had inflicted, Alith knew that they had achieved little real gain. Yet
what Elthyrior told him gave him some hope.

‘There is a new Phoenix King,’ said the raven herald.

The pair had met in a copse of trees not far from the Shadows’ camp on
the northern edge of Elanardris. It was night-time and neither moon had
yet risen. In the darkness the raven herald was invisible, a disembodied
voice amongst the trees.

‘Prince Imrik has been chosen by the other princes and, thank the gods,
he has accepted the Phoenix Throne,’ Elthyrior continued.

‘Imrik is a good choice,’ said Alith. ‘He is a warrior, and the realm of
Caledor is second only to Nagarythe in strength. The dragon princes will
be a firmer test for Morathi’s warriors.’

‘He has taken the name of King Caledor, in memory of his grandfather,’
Elthyrior added.

‘That is curious,’ replied Alith. ‘It is not without merit. It is well
that the other princes are reminded that the blood of the Dragontamer
runs in the king’s veins. Do you know anything of his intent?’

‘He intends to fight, but more than that I cannot say,’ said Elthyrior.

‘Perhaps there is some means by which we can send a message to Caledor,’
said Alith. ‘If we could join forces in some way…’

It was with this thought that Alith returned to the manse to consult
with his father and grandfather. Several messengers were sent south, but
the Naganath was well patrolled. The bodies of three heralds were found
upon stakes on the road to Elanardris, dismembered and flayed.

The winter passed without reply, and the fate of the last messenger
remained unknown. What little news that reached the Anars was not
encouraging. Despite King Caledor’s appointment, the other realms still
appeared much divided, especially those to the east that had yet to
suffer the full wrath of the druchii. Far from joining forces behind
Caledor, the princes were more concerned with protecting their own
lands, so that Tiranoc, Ellyrion, Chrace and Eataine suffered greatly at
the hands of the advancing armies.

It was late spring when a bloodied herald rode up to the manse and
demanded an audience with Eoloran. The lord of the Anars summoned
Eothlir and Alith to the great hall.

‘I am Ilriadan, and I bear tidings from the Phoenix King,’ said the
messenger. He had been given fresh clothes and a wound on his arm had
been bandaged. He sat at the long table with the others, food and
fortified wine laid before him.

‘Tell us what you know,’ said Eothlir. ‘What news of the war?’

Ilriadan drank a little wine before answering.

‘There is little to comfort those who resist Morathi’s expansion,’ he
said. ‘King Caledor does what he can to stem the attacks but the
druchii, as you call them, have gathered their strength and no force the
Phoenix King can yet muster matches them. He is forced to retreat from
their advance, slowing it for a time and little more.’

Eoloran was disconcerted at these tidings. He sighed and bowed his head.

‘There is no hope that the Phoenix King can mount an offensive?’ he
asked quietly.

‘None at all,’ said Ilriadan. ‘His princes do what they can to rouse the
dragons of Caledor to fight with them, but few of them remain willing to
aid the elves. Without the dragon princes, the army of Anlec is too
strong.’

‘Is there any effort that we might make that will aid the Phoenix King
in his cause?’ asked Eothlir.

Ilriadan shook his head.

‘The druchii hold several castles and towns in Ellyrion and Tiranoc,’
said the messenger. ‘The Phoenix King thought to raze the lands ahead of
their advance, but the other princes have refused, and say that they
will not starve their own people. Morathi consolidates her hold on what
she has already gained and we fear a fresh offensive next year.’

‘I cannot believe that in all of Ulthuan there is not the force that can
match our foes,’ snapped Alith. ‘Nagarythe is strong, but surely the
other kingdoms can muster an army to match!’

‘You are Naggarothi, you do not understand,’ said Ilriadan. ‘You are
raised as warriors. We of the other kingdoms are not. Our armies are
small compared to the legions of Nagarythe. What warriors we did have,
most left our shores to forge the colonies, and those that remain have
never seen battle before. The druchii have beasts from the mountains
that they unleash upon us, and deranged cultists that lust for blood and
do not fear death! Many Naggarothi have returned from Elthin Arvan to
swell the numbers of Anlec’s host. Each of them is a veteran of war and
a match for every five of ours! How can we fight against such an army, a
monster driven on by a hate of its foes and a terrible fear of its
commanders?’

The Anars all remained silent, absorbing the realisation that there
would be no help from outside Nagarythe.

‘We train such soldiers as we can, but King Caledor cannot throw his
untried forces into reckless battle against such a superior foe,’ said
Ilriadan.

‘How long before your army can fight?’ said Eoloran.

‘Two years, at least,’ came the reply, and this was answered by a chorus
of sighs.

‘Not all is despair,’ Ilriadan added quickly. ‘The druchii do not have
the ships to breach the Lothern gate and so cannot dare to cross the
Inner Sea. Caledor to the south still holds strong, and the enemy face
fierce opposition to fight their way through Chrace. The Phoenix King’s
cousin rules there and was not at the shrine, so Chrace is united under
his rule. The mountains will not be as forgiving as the plains of
Tiranoc. Should they pass Chrace, the druchii face Avelorn. Isha will
not suffer such dark creatures in her forests and the spirits of the
woods will fight beside the warriors of the Everqueen. Not all of those
whose lands the druchii have occupied have capitulated, and maintaining
their grip will sap their strength. In speed and surprise they have
gained the advantage, but time is a weapon on our side. The victories of
this past year will not be so easy to achieve in the next, and in the
year after… Well, let us not get ahead of ourselves.’

The Anars were forced to conclude that they could do no more than they
were already. They fortified the hills of Elanardris as best they could,
expecting attack at any time. From this haven, the Shadows sallied forth
on their raids and the warriors of Eoloran menaced troops moving along
the eastern roads.

The situation in the mountains worsened as those fleeing Chrace crossed
from the east, daring the treacherous peaks to get away from the druchii
scourge. There had been little enough food to begin with and thousands
more mouths needed feeding. Alith was forced to redirect the attentions
of his Shadows. They ambushed the druchii caravans to steal supplies and
raided grain houses. They attacked isolated patrols and stole their
baggage – tents, clothes and weapons that the Anars needed. Alith feared
that the Shadows had been turned from feared warriors into
quartermasters, but Eoloran was adamant that the refugees needed to be
provided for.

Another bleak year passed, and another. Chrace was almost overrun.
Groups of hunters held out in their mountain lodges, but the roads to
Avelorn were open to the druchii. In this way, Ellyrion was surrounded,
though Prince Finudel still held his capital at Tor Elyr.

Scattered word came from further east. In the lands of Saphery, some of
the mage-princes of that realm had been lured to Morathi’s cause by the
promise of sorcerous power. Though outnumbered by the loyal mages, these
sorcerers waged war with their kin. The meadows were blasted by magical
fire, the skies rained down comets and the air itself seethed with
mystical energy.

The druchii had dared an attack on Lothern, seeking to gain control of
the formidable sea gate. The assault had been repulsed with heavy losses
on both sides, the loyalists only claiming victory after King Caledor
arrived with the army of his kingdom. That realm remained secure against
the druchii advance and, like Elanardris, became a sanctuary for those
from Ellyrion and Tiranoc pushed out by the warriors of Anlec.

Still the Anars waited for the time to strike.

It was not until the fourth year of the war that the druchii advance
stalled. Hawks carrying messages from the Phoenix King arrived at the
manse with the coming of the spring. Eoloran read these with some
satisfaction.

‘The dragon princes have ridden forth at last,’ he told Alith and
Eothlir. ‘King Caledor has used the Eataine fleet to gather together his
new army on the border of Ellyrion and is advancing north.’

‘That is good news indeed,’ said Alith. ‘When he reaches Tiranoc, we
should strike out to join him.’

‘I fear that we may extend ourselves too soon,’ replied Eoloran. ‘We
must judge the right time to strike for the greatest effect.’

‘We cannot afford to be too cautious,’ argued Eothlir. ‘Though our army
is not so large as Caledor’s, it is in the right place to threaten the
druchii. We cannot hold much longer, and certainly not another winter.
Would you wait until Caledor is upon the borders of Elanardris before
acting?’

‘You go too far!’ snapped Eoloran. ‘I am still lord of this house!’

‘Then act as a lord!’ replied Eothlir. ‘Lead out the army now! This is
our best chance for victory. As we helped Malekith at Ealith, we can do
the same for the Phoenix King. Bite into the heart of our foes and force
them to bring back warriors from Ellyrion and Tiranoc. Our raids
accomplish little, they have become nothing more than an annoyance to
Morathi. Let us gather what warriors we can and act boldly.’

‘It is folly,’ said Eoloran with a wave of his hand. ‘Who will protect
Elanardris?’

‘The Chracians and Tiranocii have enough warriors to hold the hills
until our return.’

‘Leave my lands in the hands of outsiders?’ Eoloran laughed scornfully.
‘What manner of prince would I be?’

‘One who can swallow his pride to do the right thing,’ said Eothlir.

Alith watched the argument with horror. His father and grandfather had
quarrelled on occasion before, but he had never seen them both as angry.
Always they had debated on principles but now they attacked each other.

‘You think it is pride that steers me?’ Eoloran roared. ‘You think those
helpless thousands camped in the mountains are of no concern?’

‘They have no future unless we act,’ Eothlir replied, chillingly calm in
the face of his father’s ire. ‘They will starve or freeze to death by
the end of the year, for we cannot continue to feed and clothe them. The
only way to end their suffering is to end the war. Now!’

Eoloran strode towards the door and snarled over his shoulder.

‘It will be your lands that you are throwing away, not mine!’

As the hall reverberated from the slamming door, Eothlir sat down and
stared out of the high windows.

‘What should we do?’ asked Alith.

Eothlir looked up at his son, his eyes bleak.

‘I will fight, no matter what the wishes of your grandfather,’ he said.
‘You are not a child, what you do is your decision.’

‘I will fight as well,’ said Alith, needing no time to think it over. ‘I
would rather try for victory and fail than suffer this wasting death
that grips us. We can only get weaker the longer we wait.’

Eothlir nodded and reached up a hand to pat Alith on the arm.

‘Then we will fight together,’ he said.

Eothlir mustered some fourteen thousand warriors in all. Each was
Nagarythe-born and knew that he fought not only for his life but for the
lives of future generations. This force marched westwards, to the edge
of the foothills of Elanardris. To the east the rear of the host was
protected by the mountains, while to the west and south stretched the
marshes of Enniun Moreir – Dark Fen. To the north lay the broken ground
of Urithelth Orir.

One thousand cavalry were sent north, all the riders that Eothlir could
gather. Their target was the druchii camp at Tor Miransiath. With them
had ridden a herald, Liasdir, who bore the banner of the Anars. He would
announce that Elanardris was defiant of Anlec and would never bow down
before the Witch Queen. They were the bait for the trap, for such an
affront to Morathi would never be tolerated by the druchii commanders.

The remaining thirteen thousand soldiers, of whom more than half were
archers, took up a horseshoe-like position at the crests of the hills,
the open segment facing westwards. Each warrior had brought as many
shafts as could be found in Elanardris and was ready to unleash a storm
upon the enemy. The spearmen arrayed themselves into phalanxes in front
of the bowmen, their shields overlapping to form a wall against the
missiles of the enemy. The army was not hidden, for this was designed to
be a gesture of defiance to goad the druchii into a hasty attack.

The cavalry would lure the druchii into the treacherous marshland, where
Alith and his Shadows had spent two days, marking out the surest routes
for the riders to follow. The riders would remove these markers as they
retreated, leaving their pursuers mired and easy targets for the
archers. Eothlir was determined that he would draw the ire of Anlec; if
the Anars could inflict a sufficient defeat upon their foes, Morathi
would have no choice but to bring troops back from Ellyrion, easing the
pressure upon King Caledor.

Eothlir sent out the riders just before midday. Timing was everything.
As the skies darkened the journey across the marsh would get ever more
dangerous and the druchii casualties would be all the greater for it.

Alith stood beside his father, sword in hand. His Shadows were hidden
amongst the mounds and reeds of Enniun Moreir to snipe the enemy as best
they could, but Eothlir had insisted his son stayed close to him during
the battle.

The enemy arrived at about the time Eothlir had hoped. Shrill whistles
from the Shadows announced the coming of the cavalry and it was not long
before Alith could see the riders picking their way along the trails,
the last in each column tossing aside the rods the Shadows had used as
markers. Upon reaching the hills, the knights cut to the north, ready to
counter-attack against any foes that attempted to flank on the right.
Liasdir split from the other riders and dismounted next to Eothlir,
driving the banner pole into the turf of the hillside. Drawing his
sword, he looked at his lords.

‘There are quite a lot of them,’ he said with an uncertain smile. ‘I
hope we are doing the right thing.’

Eothlir did not reply, his gaze was fixed on a dark mass moving through
the marshlands. Like a spreading blot, the druchii army advanced slowly.
It was as if a black mist followed them, and Alith could sense sorcery
in the air. His skin crawled at the touch of the dark magic and could
feel it seeping down from the mountains behind him, drawn by the
enchantments of the druchii.

Larger shapes could be seen amongst the lines of infantry. Hydras
splashed through the marsh, their bellows and roars sounding out like a
challenge.

‘Musicians!’ called Eothlir.

Trumpeters raised their instruments to their lips and let out a long
blast that echoed across the hills. The note filled Alith with pride, a
pealing signal of refusal. Somewhere behind Alith voices rose in song
and Eothlir turned in surprise. From one company to another the sound
spread, the battle anthem of the Anars ringing from fourteen thousand
throats. The rousing song rose in pitch and volume, sweeping away the
noises of the druchii beasts.

Alith’s heart thundered along to the rhythm as the verses recounted the
feats of Eoloran during the time of Aenarion and recalled the battles to
claim Elanardris from the daemons. When the tenth and final verse was
finished, a deafening shout engulfed the hills.

‘Anar! Anar! Anar!’

Alith joined in and saw also that his father cried out the family name,
his sword held aloft.

‘Anar! Anar! Anar!’

The druchii were close enough to judge their numbers. Alith guessed
there to be at least thirty thousand foes. He was thankful that there
were no knights, but less pleased that the army presented a wall of
silver and black. All were Naggarothi soldiers, not a single cultist
amongst them. They were battle-hardened and disciplined and would be
deadly enemies.

The first arrows from the Shadows began to find their mark when the
druchii were no closer than five hundred paces to the Anar line. The
casualties inflicted were few, but the effect was considerable. Already
hard-pressed to find a footing in the marsh, the druchii tumbled into
the mud when their comrades’ corpses tripped them. Standard bearers fell
and the banners dragged up from the fen sagged wetly against their
poles. Captains looked around fearfully as the Shadows picked their
targets with deadly accuracy.

Alith knew from the battle at Anlec that the greatest weakness of the
hydras was the handlers that goaded them. Unfortunately, it seemed that
the druchii had also learnt that lesson, and the whip-armed elves tried
as best they could to keep the bulk of their beasts between them and the
Anar scouts. As they advanced, they steered their monsters between the
regiments of spearmen, so that the Shadows could not draw aim upon them.

Here and there the druchii returned the shots of the Shadows. Archers
tried to find their mark, but the scouts were well hidden. Companies
carrying mechanical bows that fired several shots in quick succession
poured bolts at their elusive enemies and the Shadows fell back,
flitting from cover to cover.

Pace-by-pace the druchii continued their advance, harried by the Shadows
and slowed by the sucking mud of Dark Fen. All the while the sun lowered
towards the west and gloom descended.

Anar archers started their volleys as soon as the druchii were within
range, the elevation of the hills allowing them to loose their arrows
farther than their foes. Each company let free with a cloud of arrows in
turn. The rate was not remarkable, but it was sustained. Storm after
storm of black-feathered shafts fell into the druchii and they died in
their hundreds. The dead sank into the mire and piled up on the firm
ground; the warriors following behind were forced to shove aside these
grisly mounds to keep to the meandering paths.

As more and more of the Anlec warriors fell, Alith felt the first
glimmer of hope. Though he had readily agreed to his father’s decision
to sally forth from Elanardris, he had doubted whether it would achieve
anything – little more than a diversion to provide small relief for
Caledor’s army to the south. Watching the druchii suffer in their
thousands gave him a grim satisfaction.

Eventually the druchii archers and crossbowmen came within two hundred
paces and began to loose their missiles against the Anars. The spearmen
raised their shields while the archers above knelt behind them and
continued to shoot, though with less venom than before.

When the druchii were almost at the edge of the marsh, the final part of
Eothlir’s plan was put into action. As well as marking out trails, the
Shadows had laid a slick of oil on the water of the fens. At Alith’s
signal, the Shadows sent flaming arrows into the mire. The flames caught
quickly, dancing across the marsh to engulf the leading ranks of the
druchii spear companies. Burning warriors flailed at the fire and dashed
to and fro in panic, spreading it further.

Alith began to laugh at the predicament of his enemies, but stopped
himself when he caught a stern look from his father.

‘You should not take joy in death,’ said Eothlir. ‘To revel in
destruction is to desire it, and it is on that path that these
unfortunate souls have trodden.’

‘You are right, Father,’ Alith said, bowing his head in apology. ‘It is
my happiness at success that gives me good humour, but I should not
forget the price being paid for our victory.’

Victory certainly seemed likely. The first of the druchii that had
survived the torrent of arrows and the conflagration were struggling
from the marsh and pushing up the rise towards the Anar army. Spearmen
came first, raising their shields above their heads to protect them from
the archers. They remained resolute in the face of the volleys, forming
their ranks again, allowing their numbers to grow rather than advance
piecemeal towards the waiting phalanxes.

When several hundred warriors had assembled on the slope, two hydras
flanking them, the druchii continued their advance. A drum boomed out
the marching beat and the spearmen lowered their weapons to the attack
and strode forwards. The hydras hissed and screeched, flames licking
from their many mouths, a pall of smoke surrounding their scaled bodies.

‘We must deal with those monsters swiftly,’ said Eothlir. He turned to
Nithimnis, one of his captains. ‘Go to the companies of Alethriel,
Finannith and Helirian and tell them to engage the hydra on our right.
Signal for the cavalry to attack on the flank.’

The captain nodded and dashed off, heading for the warriors on the right
flank. Eothlir moved his attention to Alith. ‘Send word to your Shadows
to lure away the hydra on the left.’

Alith gave a low, keening whistle and moments later a hawk skimmed
across the hillside, bobbing over the heads of the archers and spearmen.
Alith extended his arm and the bird landed on his wrist. He bent close
and whispered in the language of the hawks, relaying Eothlir’s message.
The hawk twisted its head left and right and then leapt into the air
with beating wings. It swooped down towards the fen, disappearing
amongst the tangle of rushes and bushes.

It was not long before arrows with flaming heads began converging on the
hydra. Though each did little damage, the weight of fire was enough to
scorch its flesh, while some arrows found their mark in its eyes, mouths
and softer underbelly. Its hide was slicked in places with oil from the
marsh and the flames took hold, setting alight its flank and back.
Enraged, it swung towards the source of its irritation, fire roaring
from its mouths. Turning aside from the spearmen the hydra stomped down
into the fens, sinking to its shoulders in the thick mud, more flames
streaming from its screeching maws.

At fifty paces, the advancing druchii broke into a charge. This was not
the wild attack of cultists, but a determined and cohesive thrust
towards the Anar spearmen. The two walls of warriors met with a
resounding crash and the true battle began.

Though they had suffered heavy casualties, the druchii numbers were
still their greatest advantage. More and more of them emerged from the
fen, to widen the line of attack or lend their presence to the companies
already engaged. Archers and crossbowmen began to shoot into the troops
stationed at the crest of the hill and a vicious exchange of missiles
raged above Alith’s head.

Alith watched the fighting with a careful eye. The Anar line was holding
strong, the advantage of higher ground allowing them to plunge their
spears over the shields of their foes whilst their attackers tried to
gain some momentum as they pushed uphill. Faced with several hundred
spearmen, the hydra on the right was causing a good deal of carnage,
tossing aside warriors with its jaws and smashing more to the ground
with its immense claws. The elves were not wholly outmatched. Thick
blood streamed from dozens of wounds in the hydra’s scaled skin and
three of its seven heads swung limply against its chest.

The ground began to shudder under Alith’s feet and he looked past the
hydra to see the riders of Elanardris charge. Spears lowered, they
crashed into the hydra, running down its handlers and driving their
weapons into the creature’s flesh. Horses whinnied and riders cried out
as the monster’s tail lashed viciously through their ranks, crushing
elves and breaking the legs of their steeds. The spearmen redoubled
their efforts and Alith watched as two of the hydra’s legs gave way, its
tendons severed by spearpoint and sword. The infantry clambered over its
body, jabbing and stabbing relentlessly while the cavalry swept on,
galloping into the flank of the druchii regiments.

The attack sent the druchii scattering down the hillside, some of them
tripping over hummocks and dips or the bodies of the fallen. The knights
did not push too far and at a signal from their captain wheeled their
mounts around and retired back to the north to ready for another charge.

Again and again the druchii surged up the hill, only to be met by a wall
of spears. Their commanders tried to turn the left flank of the Anars,
furthest from the cavalry. Eothlir despatched his thousand-strong
reserve to counter the threat, forcing the druchii regiments back
towards the centre.

Alith could not count how many were dead and wounded. Certainly the
druchii were at less than half the strength they had brought to the
battle. His own side’s casualties were far less, though there were gaps
appearing in the line where the druchii had met some success. He was
confident nonetheless, of both his father’s ability and the resolution
of the warriors. He had not yet needed to draw his sword and the battle
was being won.

Shouts of alarm drew Alith’s attention and he turned to see many of the
archers looking skywards and pointing to the north-east – back towards
Elanardris. Alith saw immediately their cause for concern: an immense
black shape moving swiftly through the clouds.

‘Dragon!’ bellowed Alith, ripping free his sword.

The drake plunged down towards the rear of the army, an oily cloud
trailing from its mouth. It was the largest beast Alith had ever seen,
at least as long as a ship from smoking snout to barbed tip of tail. Its
serpentine body was as straight as an arrow, huge wings held stiff as it
glided soundlessly downwards, four legs ending in massively clawed feet
extended towards the ground. Upon its back rode a figure clad in shining
silver armour. He was sat upon a throne-like chair, twin pennants
trailing from its back. On his left arm he carried a shield taller than
an elf etched with a rune of death. In the right hand he wielded a lance
longer than two horses, its tip a dark crystal that streamed black
flames.

Arrows rose up from the archers, but they might just as well have been
throwing sticks at a city wall for the injury they caused. With a
gargantuan beat of its wings, the dragon stopped in the air above the
archers, the buffet of wind hurling dozens of elves from their feet. A
huge cloud of thick vapour issued from its mouth, engulfing hundreds.
Alith watched as skin flaked and flesh melted in the noxious mist.
Choked screams sounded across the hill as the archers fell to the
ground, grabbing madly at their faces, screaming in terrifying agony.

The dragon climbed upwards again, and Alith was filled with the urge to
run. Its yellow eyes seemed to look directly at him. Its teeth were like
long swords and its red claws glistened like fresh blood. The dragon’s
black scales glimmered in the setting sun, so that it seemed to be made
of glowing embers.

Dozens of dreadful thoughts clamoured for Alith’s attention, but one was
louder than all of the rest: how had the druchii come by such a
creature? The dragons of Ulthuan dwelt beneath the mountains of Caledor.
Not since the time of Caledor Dragontamer had all but the youngest been
coaxed from their centuries-long slumber. Yet the truth was right before
him, in all of its horrific glory.

The monster was circling higher, getting ready to swoop again. It let
forth a piercing shriek that set Alith’s ears ringing. So dire was that
noise that hundreds of warriors broke into flight, dropping their
spears, shields and bows so that they might run all the faster. Alith
had never witnessed such panic before.

‘Alith!’ he heard his father shouting and realised Eothlir had been
calling his name since the dragon had first appeared. Looking over his
shoulder, Alith saw that the druchii were surging up the hill towards
them. All along the line the spearmen were being pushed backwards.

Alith turned his full attention on these attackers, bringing up his
sword. The druchii came at a gentle run, still shoulder-to-shoulder.
With a shout, Alith plunged forwards moments before the two lines of
warriors met.

His first blow chopped the head from a jabbing spear, while he rammed
his shoulder into the warrior’s shield. Snatching a dagger from his
belt, Alith plunged the blade back-handed into the druchii soldier’s
neck. His next sword thrust took another druchii in the chest. Something
caught his shoulder and he felt a stab of pain. Twisting, he smashed the
back of his fist into the jaw of a third warrior before bringing his
sword down across the druchii’s face.

Everything devolved into a chaotic melee: Alith, Eothlir and the others
shouting and fighting, the druchii snarling and stabbing.

‘Hold the line!’ bellowed Eothlir. ‘Push them back into the fens!’

Hundreds of spearmen gathered around their commander, with bitter war
cries on their lips and blood upon their armour. Alith heard a gasp of
pain and glanced to his right. Liasdir fell to the ground, blood gushing
from a wound in his back. He grabbed hold of the banner to pull himself
to his feet but another druchii spearman lunged, thrusting his weapon
through Liasdir’s chest. Falling, Liasdir dragged the banner down into
the bloody grass.

Eothlir batted away a spear and stooped to pick up the fallen standard.
Cutting the arm from yet another attacker, he raised the flag above his
head.

‘Fight on, Anars, fight on!’ he cried.

A shadow swamped Alith, blotting out the twilight. A rushing of air
filled his ears and he looked up a moment before the dragon landed,
crushing dozens of druchii and Anars alike beneath its bulk. Eothlir
swung towards the monster, sword raised. His eyes widened in rage as he
recognised the rider.

‘Kheranion!’ he spat. Alith knew the name only from rumour, and that
told of how the renegade prince had been spared at Anlec by Malekith. He
had been a scourge of those Naggarothi opposed to Morathi’s rule, one of
the most brutal slaughterers in Nagarythe. It was claimed that his back
had been broken by Prince Malekith but he had been healed by dark
sorcery, kept alive by potions made from the blood of his victims.

The prince’s face was twisted into a cruel sneer framed by white and
silver hair. He said nothing as he thrust his flaming lance. Alith gave
a hoarse shout as the black-flamed iron burst through Eothlir’s body,
sending boiling blood steaming into the air. As quick as he had struck,
Kheranion wrenched the lance free.

Eothlir staggered backwards a step and righted himself. He turned slowly
towards Alith and then fell to his knees, his sword falling out of view
into the trampled grass, the standard of the Anars fluttering from his
grasp. Blood bubbled up from Eothlir’s throat, foaming from his mouth.
Alith’s greatest horror came not from this, but from the look in his
father’s eyes. They were wide and wild, filled with utter terror.

‘Flee!’ Eothlir croaked before pitching into the mud.

Kheranion’s mocking laughter drifted to Alith’s ears. Alith gave a
wordless scream of despair and rage, and hurled himself towards
Kheranion and his monstrous steed. He had taken barely two steps when
someone grabbed his arm and yanked him aside. Stumbling, Alith tried to
wrest his arm free, but found himself grabbed roughly by many hands and
bodily lifted away.

‘Let me go!’ screamed Alith, struggling as best he could as more
spearmen surged forwards to put themselves between the dragon and their
lord. ‘Let me go!’

The army was broken by the death of their commander. Thousands of
Alith’s followers turned and ran, while a brave few hundred formed up to
sell their lives dearly and stall the pursuit. Alith felt himself
dragged up the hill. Desolation swept through him and he went limp,
tears coursing down his face.

Sobbing, he let his warriors carry him to safety.
