
FIVE 

A King is Chosen

The interior of the shrine was awash with the blood of princes; the
walls cracked and broken by the earthquake; the floor littered with
debris and bodies. Carathril picked his way through the ruin, a hand
over his mouth in horror. The ghastly scene was bathed in a deep red
glow from the flame of Asuryan, lending it an even more disturbing
sheen.

With a groan, Finudel sat up, pushing aside the armoured body of a
Naggarothi knight. His robe was slashed across his right shoulder and
blood leaked from a long wound as he staggered to his feet. Carathril
dashed to his side and helped him to stand. Finudel looked at Carathril,
his eyes glazed and distant, incomprehension written across his
features.

‘He was the best of us,’ murmured Finudel. ‘How could he betray us?’

‘Who?’ asked Carathril, righting a chair with his free hand and lowering
the prince onto it. ‘Who has betrayed us?’

‘Malekith…’ Finudel whispered.

A groan attracted Carathril’s attention and he left Finudel to search
through the morbid pile of corpses, blood slicking his hands and sleeves
as he pushed aside the bodies. A hand grabbed at the hem of his robe and
Carathril turned to see Thyriol, his face even paler than usual. There
was a cut across his forehead and dried blood caked the mage’s eyes.

‘It is Carathril,’ the captain said softly. ‘You are safe now.’

‘No,’ said Thyriol, his voice a hoarse rasp. ‘None of us are safe.
Malekith will unleash the darkness of Nagarythe upon us all.’

‘Malekith is dead,’ a voice rang from the far end of the shrine.
Carathril glanced up to see Thyrinor, prince of Caledor, where he knelt
upon the floor cradling the headless body of his cousin, Caledrian.

‘How so?’ asked Thyriol, his voice regaining some of its former strength
and timbre.

‘I saw him step into the sacred flame,’ Thyrinor told them. ‘Asuryan
judged him to be tainted and burnt him alive before casting his body
back to us. His knights fled with the remains.’

‘I saw them,’ said Carathril. ‘And Bathinair also.’

‘Yes, Bathinair killed Elodhir, with a concealed blade,’ said Thyrinor.
‘Who can say how long he has been a puppet of Nagarythe?’

They digested this news in silence, until Finudel stirred himself and
stood shakily to his feet. He walked hesitantly towards the shrine
entrance, one hand gripped to his injured shoulder.

‘I thank Asuryan and all gods that Athielle was not here for this
butchery,’ the Ellyrian said quietly.

‘There are too few who were absent,’ said Thyriol. ‘More than half the
ruling princes of Ulthuan lie dead in this chamber. Of those that
remain, most are lords of Nagarythe. Malekith’s treachery has bitten
deep, inflicting a wound from which we might never recover.’

‘Malekith may be dead, but Nagarythe remains,’ said Thyrinor. ‘I fear
that Morathi knows full well what her son intended, and even now
Nagarythe readies for invasion of the other realms.’

‘She will take the death of her son gravely, and will vent her grief and
anger upon the rest of us,’ said Carathril. ‘I see now that the
divisions between mother and child were feigned, and that these past
months we have been led upon a deadly dance of deception.’

‘But there is no one left to lead,’ growled Finudel. ‘Who will muster
the militia? Who will call the spears and bows to war against Nagarythe
when the best of our commanders lie dead within this chamber?’

‘Perhaps,’ said Thyriol. ‘Many died here, but there are those alive
still that might stand against Nagarythe.’

‘You speak of Imrik,’ said Thyrinor.

At the mention of the Caledorian prince’s name, Carathril remembered a
letter entrusted to him by Bel Shanaar. He ran from the temple, leaping
nimbly and without second thought over bodies and rubble. He noticed
that Malekith’s ship had departed, along with the knights and cultists,
having hurriedly left their unloaded stores upon the quay. Compelled by
nameless worries, Carathril sped between the pavilions of the camp,
which were in tumultuous uproar as servants and soldiers dashed about,
panicked by the earthquake. He ducked beneath streaming banners and
leapt over tent ropes in his haste, dodging effortlessly through the
milling throng.

Reaching his tent, Carathril tore aside the door and delved into his
pack, seeking the scroll. Pulling it free from its hiding place, he
turned back towards the shrine. A warrior in the garb of Eataine
recognised him and snatched his arm as Carathril ran past.

‘Where is the prince?’ the soldier demanded.

Carathril hesitated before replying.

‘Prince Haradrin is dead,’ he said quietly, lifting the elf’s grip from
his bloodied sleeve. ‘Gather as many soldiers as you can and await my
return.’

Carathril ignored the elf’s desperate questions and ran back to the
shrine, vaulting over the fallen columns in his haste. Entering once
more, he saw that several priests had escaped the slaughter, and they
were even now tending to the bodies and the devastation, shock and grief
scored upon their faces. Thyriol and Finudel were having their wounds
bathed and dressed, and Thyrinor picked his way through the fallen
princes and their counsellors seeking any still alive. His grim face
betrayed his lack of hope in this task.

‘What do you have there?’ asked Thyriol, as Carathril held up the
scroll.

‘Perhaps the last wishes of the rightful Phoenix King,’ panted
Carathril. ‘Bel Shanaar entrusted me with this message for Prince Imrik
before I left Tor Anroc.’

‘Open it,’ said Finudel, but Carathril was reluctant.

‘Bel Shanaar was adamant that Imrik alone read whatever is contained
within,’ said Carathril. ‘I was to keep it secret from you all.’

‘Bel Shanaar has been murdered and Imrik is not here,’ said Thyrinor
sternly. ‘I think it is safe to say that those who have sided with
Nagarythe are not here, either, and that we who have survived remain
loyal to Ulthuan.’

Though he was not wholly convinced, Carathril relented and broke the wax
seal upon the scroll. He read aloud the Phoenix King’s letter:



To the Esteemed Prince Imrik of Caledor,

You must forgive me the subterfuge that surrounds the delivery of this
letter, for as you are aware, we live in distrustful times. Events in
Nagarythe lead me to believe that the cults and sects that have so
plagued our people these many years are but one thread of a dark
tapestry woven by those who rule in Nagarythe. Morathi’s turn to
darkness is absolute, and I cannot bring myself to trust Malekith,
though he seems most earnest in his endeavours to bring peace to
Ulthuan. I cannot say that there are any in the Northern Realm who
remain loyal to the Phoenix Throne.

While my heart hopes that war can yet be averted, my head tells me
otherwise. Malekith is determined to prosecute a military campaign
against the Naggarothi, and in this I am in accord with him. Where our
opinions differ is in who is best chosen to lead this action. I cannot
wholly trust Malekith, for even if he is not complicit in these events
in some way, he is the prince of Nagarythe and son of Morathi and I fear
that his resolve may not endure the calamity of fighting those whom we
must face; friends and trusted peers of his, and folk of his own realm.

It is for this reason that I turn to you, Imrik, and you alone. You have
counselled me to decisive action in the past, and so I must entrust to
you the leadership of the assembled armies of Ulthuan. There is none
braver, nor accomplished upon the field of battle as you, and in Caledor
resides the greatest strength of our isle. While Caledor stands firm and
holds true to the ideals of our people, Ulthuan will endure.

I shall confront Malekith with my decision before we arrive at the Isle
of the Flame. I do not think he will be pleased, to say the least. He
will argue in the council for control, and there is much loyalty to him
amongst the other princes. Only Caledor’s ruler has equal measure of
power in this debate, and I hope that I can look to you and your
brothers for support in this.

If we cannot speak on this matter, any message you have for me can be
entrusted to my herald, Carathril, who bears this missive; either by
written or spoken word. He is of staunch loyalty and most noble
character, and I vouch for him in the highest manner.

May the gods bless us all and protect the peace of our lands.

Bel Shanaar, Prince of Tiranoc, Phoenix King of Ulthuan

Thyriol took the scroll to read it again for himself, and the princes
pondered long and hard over the meaning and import of Bel Shanaar’s
words.

‘We are left with a difficult choice,’ said Thyriol. ‘The Phoenix Throne
stands empty, and a dire threat rises to challenge us. Bel Shanaar may
have been gifted rare prophecy in his choice of words, and his
entrusting of this letter to his herald. I think it is plain that the
Phoenix King would have seen Imrik succeed him if he could have known
what was to occur.’

‘I agree,’ said Finudel. ‘Yet, we three here cannot make this decision
alone. Just as it was wrong for Malekith to try to take the crown, it is
not for less than a handful of princes to place it upon the head of
another. Heirs there are, in those realms whose rulers now lie dead upon
this floor, who have equal right to make this choice.’

‘Though conceived in deceit, Malekith’s lies were, like all great
illusions, grounded in some truth,’ said Thyriol. ‘It is unlikely that
the army of Nagarythe will march before the spring, and that, at least,
gives us some time to prepare.’

‘I fear that Malekith was also right that we cannot afford to hesitate,’
said Thyrinor. ‘If Imrik had come, then perhaps we could have moved more
swiftly, but he is still in the mountains and utterly unaware of the
drastic course events have now taken.’

‘We must send word to him at once, and go to those other realms that now
must mourn the loss of so much noble blood,’ said Finudel. ‘Though we
must gather a new council, I do not think there will be any opposition
to Imrik taking up the mantle of the Phoenix King.’

‘Except perhaps from Imrik himself,’ said Thyrinor with a resigned
expression. ‘He was reluctant to lead the war against the cults when we
last spoke, who is to say that he will not feel it his duty to keep
Caledor safe first and foremost now that Caledrian is dead?’

‘Caledor is strong, that is true,’ said Finudel. ‘Yet even the strength
of Caledor would not be enough to resist all of Ulthuan if the other
realms should fall to Nagarythe’s power. Imrik will fight, of that I
have no doubt.’

‘And how might we bring Imrik to the Isle of the Flame?’ asked Thyrinor.
‘Messengers could search for many days and not find him. He made it
clear he does not want to be found.’

‘No one escapes the gaze of the raven heralds,’ said Finudel, speaking
of the ancient order founded by Aenarion. The suggestion troubled
Thyrinor, for the raven heralds were elves of Nagarythe. He was thankful
when Carathril objected.

‘No!’ said Carathril. ‘I do not trust them, for they played their part
in the deception at Ealith. As you say, they see all, and I cannot
believe that they were so misled. Even if some are not in thrall to
Anlec, we have no way of telling friend from foe, or of contacting those
who would side with our cause.’

‘Then you must go, Carathril,’ said Thyrinor.

‘Me?’ gasped Carathril. ‘I have no talent for this sort of endeavour.’

‘Bel Shanaar had every confidence in you,’ said Thyriol. ‘I share his
confidence. You will not be unaided, there are enchantments known to the
mages of Saphery that will help you locate Imrik.’

‘I would not know where to begin,’ protested Carathril. His first
thought was of returning to Lothern, to inter the body of Haradrin in
the mausoleum and share in the grief of his people.

‘In Chrace, of course,’ said Finudel, stepping forwards to lay a hand on
Carathril’s shoulder. ‘You shall have the pick of Ellyrion’s steeds to
carry you.’

‘And a ship travels even swifter,’ said Thyrinor. ‘Many there are by the
wharf, and you are welcome to whichever you choose and a crew for it.’

Thyriol rolled up the scroll and held it in his outstretched hand
towards the captain. Carathril looked at the other princes and saw that
they were in agreement. A protest stirred in his breast but he quelled
it for the moment.

‘Most assuredly you have the blessing of Asuryan,’ said the mage. ‘Who
else of those here has been through so much turmoil of late and emerged
unscathed?’

Carathril sought for an argument, a reason why he should not go. He
longed to return to Lothern, which would reel again at the news that
another of its rulers was dead by violence. He was scared, though he
could not admit that in such noble company; the wilds of Chrace were
dangerous enough in normal circumstances and on the very borders of
Nagarythe. He would have to sail past the Isle of the Dead and search in
the monster-infested mountains.

Then he remembered the words in Bel Shanaar’s letter. Pride and duty
stirred within Carathril, burning through the fear in his stomach. He
recalled the tattooed and scarred cultists and their depraved rites, his
loathing for what would become of Ulthuan if they should be victorious
outweighing his dread at the task ahead. He took the letter from
Thyriol.

‘I shall go,’ said Carathril. ‘There is no time to waste.’

‘We are not so sorely pressed that you cannot spare time to prepare,’
said Thyriol. ‘You shall not go alone, so we must choose a company of
soldiers to guard you, and tomorrow will serve us as well as today.
There is much we must make ready, for you and for other messengers.’
