
SIXTEEN 

A New Power

As before, the war had ground to a stalemate. Still reeling from the
shock of Hotek’s betrayal, Caledor was heartened by news from Saphery.
Thyriol and his mages had triumphed over the druchii and driven them
from the kingdom, though much of Saphery had been devastated by the
magical battles that had raged and most of the dark practitioners,
including his daughter, had survived to blight the world with their evil
magic. The sorcerers and sorceresses had fled, presumably to Nagarythe,
and the prince was quick to invite Caledor to a fresh council in his
palaces to discuss their next move.

The princes gathered at Caledor’s summons, and they marvelled at the
floating citadel of Thyriol. Though its white towers bore the scars of
bitter fighting, the huge gliding edifice was awe-inspiring as it lifted
from the ground, the assembled princes on the palace balconies with
their retinues watching the world drop away below them.

As the castle drifted over the hills of Saphery, Thyriol called the
council together. Representatives from all of the kingdoms save for
Nagarythe and Tiranoc were present; even Yvraine had deigned to send a
delegation to speak on her behalf, though for the most part they spoke
only to say that the Everqueen could do little else to help in the war
and all of her attention was focussed on the rebirth of Avelorn. She had
done it before, after the war of the daemons, and seemed content to let
the war rage across Ulthuan without further interference.

Pledges were renewed, by Caledor and the princes. The sacrifice of
Cothique had been a hard blow to the princes, who had feared that their
own kingdoms would suffer a similar fate. True to his word, Caledor had
not allowed the druchii to spread beyond Cothique, and with the securing
of Saphery there was general consensus that the war in the eastern
kingdoms had reached a plateau. This was not to the liking of Tithrain.

‘You speak as if we were at peace,’ said the prince of Cothique. ‘My
people still suffer misery and torment at the hands of the Khainite
horde unleashed upon them. Do not make the same mistakes we did and
believe the threat has passed. One day, maybe not for many years but as
sure as the sun rises, the druchii will bore of the sport they make of
my people. They will come for yours, and where then should I lend my
support?’

‘You make a good point,’ said Finudel. ‘I would gladly lead the army of
Ellyrion across the Inner Sea and attack from Saphery. If others strike
from Yvresse, we would trap the druchii between us and see to their
destruction for good.’

‘A worthy plan,’ said Carvalon. ‘As neighbour to Cothique, Yvresse does
not sleep soundly knowing that the druchii could be at our doors at any
time. Give me a year and I will assemble as many companies as I can. I
will draw such troops from the colonies as can be spared’

‘A year?’ cried Tithrain. ‘A year more of torture and sacrifice for
those I swore to protect!’

‘A year,’ repeated Carvalon. He looked at the other princes and received
nods of agreement, and finally turned to Caledor. ‘If the Phoenix King
wishes it, of course.’

Caledor regarded the faces of those sat in Thyriol’s throne room. He saw
determination, expressions grown hard from the time he had first set
eyes on many of them more than a decade before. Then, at the outset of
the war, the threat had seemed distant, perhaps even imagined. Now they
had all seen the menace posed by the druchii. The marshalling of armies
was quickening, as the common folk of every realm suffered daily the
tales of woe brought about by the Naggarothi. Those who had long
professed a love of peace were now resigned to bloodshed.

‘I agree,’ said Caledor. ‘A year from now, the kingdoms will join
together as we should have done long ago. We will drive the enemy from
Cothique. When that is done, we shall turn our eyes westwards and free
Tiranoc from its overlords. Nagarythe shall be isolated.’

The year passed without great incident. Rumour abounded of fighting in
Nagarythe, and Caledor heard stories that the followers of Alith Anar
had renewed their war against Morathi’s troops. As the princes lent
their full backing to Caledor and used all of their political might and
skill, ships of elves came back across the Great Ocean, from Elthin
Arvan and further afield, ready to serve the Phoenix King. Most were of
second and third generation colonists, who were setting foot on Ulthuan
for the first time. They brought a strange atmosphere of optimism, their
visions of their homeland coloured with nostalgia, free from the taint
of war’s reality.

The druchii were not entirely idle. They continued to make forays into
Chrace, seeking to take the kingdom and link Cothique with Nagarythe by
land; the Eataine fleet still ruled the seas and frequently intercepted
ships taking supplies back to the Naggarothi kingdom from the occupied
eastern lands.

From those freed in these boarding actions, the Phoenix King’s followers
learned of the terrors unleashed upon Cothique. The druchii were ruled
over by a savage Khainite priestess called Hellebron, herself a child of
the colonies. The populace had been enslaved, set to work in the fields
and mines with whips upon their backs, to provide food and ore for
Nagarythe. All resistance had been broken. Any elf that so much as
looked wrongly at the druchii overseers was dragged to the temples of
Khaine that had sprung up across the kingdom.

Fear ruled Cothique and the slaves believed they had been abandoned.
Without hope of succour, many had turned to the druchii way, embracing
their dark worship of the cytharai, and so turned upon family and
friends.

It was this news that most disturbed Caledor. The slightest hint that
cooperation with the druchii was possible could not be allowed. The
alliance between the kingdoms was fragile. A fresh setback would
splinter everything that had been built, common cause divided by selfish
interest.

Caledor did not sleep well for that year. He expected to hear of a new
druchii attack at any moment, and since the episode at Vaul’s Anvil, he
suffered occasional seizures of the mind and body brought about by
after-effects from the blast of the Hammer of Vaul. He missed Thyrinor’s
friendly counsel, and longed for the solitude he had once enjoyed. He
returned once to Tor Caled, but could not find respite from his worries;
Dorien and the rest of his family were a constant source of distraction
and interruption, and after only a few short days Caledor left for the
sanctuary of the Isle of the Flame.

The ministrations of Mianderin and his priests did little to improve the
Phoenix King’s disposition, but at least the Shrine of Asuryan was
quiet. The silent Phoenix Guard continued their vigil, but their
presence, and their reluctance to speak of his fate, added to Caledor’s
frustrations. He spent a long time standing on the shore, looking out
across the calm waters of the Inner Sea, seeking some source of
stability, some spark of hope.

Mianderin found him there one day, gazing at the sunset.

‘Not even Aenarion knew such troubles as you,’ said the high priest.

‘You knew him?’ replied Caledor, surprised.

‘No,’ said Mianderin, with a lopsided smile. ‘I was speaking
figuratively.’

The Phoenix King snorted with disappointment and returned to looking at
the orange-dappled waves.

‘The enemy was clear for Aenarion,’ the priest continued, ignoring
Caledor’s rebuff. ‘When we fight ourselves, when do we know we have been
victorious?’

Caledor said nothing, but stopped short of telling the priest to leave
him alone.

‘What you fight is a taint, a malaise of the spirit,’ said Mianderin,
stepping up beside the Phoenix King. ‘It is not something you can pierce
with a spear or cut with a sword. Aenarion was victorious not because of
the weapons he wielded, but because of the symbol he became. He could
not defeat the daemons alone, but he fought and that inspired others.
They invested him with their hopes, and that made them real.’

‘You have a point?’ snapped Caledor.

‘A question,’ replied the priest. ‘Why does the Phoenix King hide here,
away from his subjects?’

Caledor turned and began to walk up the white beach, his back to
Mianderin. He had little time for pointless philosophy.

‘Think about it,’ the high priest called after him. ‘When you know the
answer to that question, you will know what to do!’

Caledor returned to Yvresse to find a host of warriors awaiting him.
True to their oaths, the princes had striven to provide him with an army
worthy of the Phoenix King. Nearly thirty thousand elves awaited his
command; ten thousand more were with Thyriol and Finudel in Saphery,
ready to march across the mountains and attack from the west.

Battle-plans were laid and messenger hawks flew back and forth between
the armies as Caledor finalised his strategy. His army would strike fast
along the coast, supplied by the Lothern fleet. Cut off from their
ships, the druchii would be caught between Caledor’s force and the army
arriving from Saphery. As a last measure, Koradrel was despatched back
to Chrace to shore up the defences of his kingdom, lest the druchii
launch an offensive from Nagarythe to link up with their army beset in
Cothique.

The appointed day came, early in the summer. Caledor felt something of
his old pride as he mounted Maedrethnir and watched the column moving
along the coastal road. Years of reaction and inaction had sapped his
will, but on this morning he felt in control of his destiny again.
Should the campaign go well, his army would be well poised to march
through Chrace and take the fight to Nagarythe.

Two dragons had been sent to Chrace and two more to Saphery. The rest of
the dragon riders took to the skies alongside their king, Dorien amongst
them, and for the first time in many years Caledor was greeted by cheers
from the elves below.

The Phoenix King looked down at the winding river of silver and white
moving between the deep blue of the sea and the lush green of Yvresse’s
forested hills. From on high he remembered the beauty of an army on the
march; for a moment he was happy. The feeling passed as he remembered he
marched not against savage beastmen or crude orcs, but against his
fellow elves. The thought did not sadden him, but roused in him a deep
resentment. The ambition of the Naggarothi had turned him into a
kinslayer, and for that he could never forgive them.

The army crossed into Cothique unopposed. What they found was more
disheartening than any army set to fight them. Villages lay ruined, the
doors of houses and farms broken in, occupants dragged from their homes.
Fresh bodies littered the roads and fields. Huge flocks of crows and
other carrion eaters wheeled in the skies, while the settlements the
elves came across were almost overrun with swarms of rats gorged on the
feast left by the druchii.

There seemed no sense to the slaughter. Fields had not been razed and
the storehouses had not been looted. Some of the dead showed signs of
ritual sacrifice, chest splayed open and organs removed and piles of
burned bones, but most were simply slain and left to rot, throats slit
and guts carved open.

As they moved further into the kingdom, the presence of Khaine’s worship
became more pronounced. Caledor’s followers came across shrines bedecked
with bones and entrails, the altar stones notched with many strikes of
the sacrificial knives. Here the pyres had burned high, and mounds of
blackened bones dotted the countryside. All cheer at the prospect of
reclaiming Cothique drained away and the elves marched in stolid
silence; there were some that were overcome by what they witnessed and
broke down in tears, unable to continue the march.

In the larger towns, the carnage was even worse. Squares and plazas were
choked with the dead, from newborn to elder. The cobbles were stained
red with blood, the walls daubed with gore in the shape of Khaine’s
runes. Caledor despatched Carathril and several other messengers back to
Yvresse, to seek out priests and priestesses of Ereth Khial to come and
make proper preparation of the dead. Caledor did not envy them the task,
and knew that many years hence the survivors of Cothique would still be
burying their dead.

For several days they marched, and met no resistance. Here and there
they came across stunned survivors who had hidden in caves and woods.
Some had buried themselves beneath the mounds of the dead to avoid the
murderous attention of the druchii. They described the orgies of
bloodletting that had swept across the kingdom since the turn of spring.
Whole villages had been cut down as the druchii had rampaged through the
woods and fields.

It was senseless, even for the atrocities of Khainites; slaying for its
own sake.

As more days passed, it became clear that the druchii had not long
abandoned Cothique. Further north there were more refugees, first in
their dozens, then the hundreds, coming down from the high mountains.
Caledor’s host joined with Finudel and Thyriol’s army, who brought with
them more than three thousand more elves who had fled the massacre.

‘They have been recalled to Nagarythe,’ said Thyriol. ‘To what purpose,
I do not know.’

‘Why such slaughter?’ asked Athielle, who remained stern-faced despite
the horrors encountered.

‘Rage,’ replied Thyriol. ‘The Khainites struck out in blind rage,
perhaps angered by the call back to Nagarythe. Knowing they were going
to leave, they resolved to kill as many as possible before they went.’

The grim news did not cease. They came to Anirain, the capital, and
found it a burned husk, the walls cast down, every building razed nearly
to the foundations. The tangled mass of bodies in every home and shop,
every tower and palace gave testament to what had happened; locked
inside by the Khainites, more than ten thousand elves had been burned
alive as their city was put to the torch. Such was the charnel stench
that the army was forced to move away; desertions amongst the companies
increased significantly as distraught elves fled back to their homes in
their hundreds.

Caledor’s mood matched the devastation that surrounded him. Eight days
earlier he had found a glimmer of optimism, a seed of hope that might be
nurtured into victory. Such thoughts were far from his mind as he
watched soldiers with scarves wrapped across their faces carrying the
dead from the ruins; a labour that seemed like it would take an age.

His anger was spent. There was no ire left for those who had committed
such slaughter, its scale too vast to comprehend, its evil too dark to
contemplate. Caledor took himself away from the army and with
Maedrethnir flew up into the mountains. Asking leave of the dragon, he
found a quiet mountain lake and sat at its rim, staring at his
reflection.

He wept for the whole night. From sunset to sunrise, Caledor gave vent
to the grief that had built within him for thirteen years. He shed tears
for the dead, for his cousin Thyrinor and the thousands of others whose
lives had been claimed. He cried for his son, for a world he would grow
into that allowed such things to pass. And at the last, the Phoenix King
of the elves wept for himself, out of pity and weakness and raw despair.

When the sun rose, he gathered his thoughts and flew back to his army.
The world had not ended and the druchii had not yet won. The withdrawal
of the army from Cothique clearly signalled some new shift in the war;
one for which Caledor was determined to be prepared.

The lamenting of the prisoners rebounded from the rough stone walls,
moans and wails of misery amplified by the great dungeon in which they
were chained. Several black-robed elves stood over the captives with
curved daggers in hand, the blades shining with grim runes.

In one wall a cell housed a furnace, its coals kept hot by a bellows
worked by two scar-backed slaves. Beside the forge stood Hotek in his
full panoply, the Hammer of Vaul in hand, a sheaf of parchments in the
other. He studied his notes as Morathi swept into the room followed by
three sorceresses. Behind them came more slaves, their eyes put out so
they could not see the burden they carried.

On a bier strapped to the bent backs of the elves rode Malekith. His
wasted form was propped up by silk cushions, a blood-flecked sheet
across him to hide his ravaged body. His eyes stared from a mask of
blackened flesh, and the prisoners’ wailing increased in volume at the
hideous sight. At Morathi’s command, the slaves lowered the prince’s
seat in the centre of the chamber before being driven out of the dungeon
by the lashes of their overseer.

‘He will need to stand,’ said Hotek, glancing with dead eyes at the
reclining prince.

‘I cannot,’ whispered Malekith. ‘The flames took my strength from me.’

‘Not for much longer,’ said the priest of Vaul with a sly smile. ‘Soon
you will be stronger than ever.’

‘I will give you the strength,’ said Morathi.

She strode up to one of the prisoners and grabbed her long hair,
dragging the bedraggled elf to her feet. With her other hand, Morathi
gestured to the acolyte beside her and received the adept’s dagger.

The sorceress-queen began an incantation, the words harsh, spat from
reddened lips like curses. The prisoner writhed weakly in her grasp,
eyes roaming the dungeon for escape. With a quick gesture, Morathi drew
the dagger across her captive’s throat and handed it back to the
acolyte. Holding up the drooping corpse by the hair, she cupped her free
hand and filled it with blood gushing from the wound. This she
swallowed, smearing her face with crimson.

A tenebrous presence coalesced around the dead girl, snakes of shadow
coiling about her, probing the open wound in her throat. Morathi dragged
the body across to Malekith, leaving a trail of blood on the bare stone
floor. The shadow-creature followed, tendrils drifting as it did so,
seeking the life fluid it craved.

‘Drink,’ said Morathi, using her hand again to catch some of the blood,
holding it to Malekith’s lipless mouth. He lapped at the red liquid like
an animal, painfully gulping it down.

The shadow slithered along Morathi’s arm, tinged with droplets of blood,
sliding across her shoulders to rear up beside Malekith. The formless
thing wavered for a moment, dabbing its incorporeal limbs at the blood
on the prince’s fleshless chin. When these drops were gone, it
contracted, sliding into his open mouth.

Malekith gasped and shuddered, rocking left and right on the bier. His
lidless eyes stared at his mother as clenched fists beat at his side.
With another rattling hiss, the prince slumped back, fingers twitching.
He lay motionless for a moment.

Malekith’s quiet laugh silenced the plaintive noises of the prisoners,
chilling their hearts. With deliberate care, the prince sat up, pushing
aside the bloodstained sheet.

‘Life from life,’ he said, some of the timbre returned to his voice.

‘It is fleeting,’ warned Morathi, taking her son’s offered hand.

He swung one leg from the bier and then the other. With his mother’s
support, Malekith stood, swaying uncertainly. Morathi released her grip
and stepped back. The prince took a faltering step, and another, all the
while his haunting chuckle echoing from the walls. As his strength
returned, he straightened and turned to face Hotek.

‘I am ready.’

The priest nodded and signalled to his attendants. Each of them carried
a piece of blackened metal, curved and rune-encrusted. Some were
recognisable: breastplate, vambraces, gorget, gauntlets. Others seemed
utterly alien, strangely shaped, trailing sheets of black mail or fixed
with awkwardly angled hinges.

The first piece was put into the furnace. The slaves were whipped to
increase their labours at the bellows. Muttering prayers to Vaul, Hotek
fanned the flames with magic, until they burned white-hot. Reaching his
bare hand into the fires, he retrieved the piece of armour. Impervious
to the heat, he carried it to Malekith, who watched the proceedings with
the remains of his brow knotted in concentration.

‘This will burn,’ said Hotek.

Malekith’s reply was a shrill laugh, tinged with madness.

‘I can burn no more,’ whispered the prince. ‘Do it!’

An acolyte brought forwards a smoking rivet in a pair of tongs. Hotek
and his assistant crouched, the priest placing the hot piece of metal
against Malekith’s flesh with a hiss of vapour. Malekith giggled.

‘Now,’ said Hotek.

The acolyte pushed the rivet into place. With a few whispered words of
enchantment, Hotek struck lightly with the Hammer of Vaul, tapping the
hot rivet through its prepared hole and into the bone of Malekith.

The prince snarled with pain, and swayed for a moment. He wished he
could close his eyes. Instead he set his mind aside, going to the place
he had created for himself in the cold depths of his thoughts.

He pictured himself on a golden throne, wearing his father’s armour.
Prince after prince came forwards, kneeling to kiss his booted feet
while a chorus of maidens sang Malekith’s praises. The sun shone down
upon the ceremony, casting stark shadows. In a nearby cage something
insubstantial writhed; the shade of Bel Shanaar brought back from Mirai
to witness the coronation of the true Phoenix King.

With a start, Malekith was dragged back to reality. Two bodies lay at
his feet. His body burned with fresh fire, but it was no more than he
had grown used to. Acolytes moved around him, painting blood from the
sacrifices into the runes carved upon the pieces of armour put in place,
following each curl and line with brushes made of elven hair.

His lower legs and feet were clad in the smoking black iron. He did not
remember lifting his feet, but realised he must have done so. He could
feel the rivets hammered into heel and toe and laughed at the thought of
being shod like a warhorse.

There was chanting. His mother looked on silently, but her adepts’ words
swished around the chamber, verses overlapping, creating an arrhythmic
harmony of magic. More rivets were driven into the scrawny flesh of his
thighs, and links were riveted into place through the sides of his
knees.

The pain was becoming too intense again as more of the hot metal was
placed against his flesh. It was a physical pain, nothing like the
soul-searing agony of Asuryan’s blessing, but it was pain nonetheless
and he retreated from it.

A thousand white doves flew into the blue skies to mark his ascension to
rulership, while a thousand clarions rang out his tribute.

When next he perceived clearly what was happening, he was clad from foot
to neck in the armour. Every part of him trembled. He could feel the
energy of the spirit he had consumed slipping away.

‘Too soon,’ he muttered. ‘I am falling.’

Morathi hurriedly beckoned to an adept, who sacrificed another captive
and brought the blood to Malekith in a cup of ancient silver. Malekith
took the cup and then stopped. He realised he had not held a thing for
more than a decade. He examined the fingers of his new hand, each
perfectly articulated. He recognised the dwarf-work that inspired the
design and smiled to himself. Even now, his great adventures of the past
were still bearing fruit.

Drinking the blood, enjoying the flex of the armoured arm as if it were
his own flesh, he dropped into pleasant memory; sharing a goblet of wine
with his good friend, the High King Snorri Whitebeard.

He remembered the old dwarf’s confused expression. The taste of elven
wine was nothing like the brewing of the dwarfs. Snorri had gulped down
the glass in one draught. Malekith poured him another and told him to
savour it, to let it roll across his tongue and moisten the inside of
his cheeks. Always ready to try something new, the High King did as was
suggested, making great exhibition of swishing the liquid in and out of
his cheeks. He tossed back his head and gargled, making Malekith laugh
with surprise.

Smacking his lips, Snorri...

Snorri was dead.

The memory changed and Malekith’s heart sank. He knew that part of him
had died with that noble dwarf. Not since had Malekith allowed himself
to trust anyone as he had trusted Snorri; not since had he ever allowed
himself to know the weakness of friendship. It was too painful, the
heartache of loss, and Malekith had lost himself in his grief.

The fires flared anew and Malekith was brought back to the present. A
film of red covered his vision. His own blood, he realised.

He blinked.

The simple motion caused him immeasurable joy. The thinnest slivers of
black metal had been fashioned into eyelids. Malekith blinked again, and
then closed his eyes. He enjoyed the darkness and more time passed.

‘It is done,’ announced Hotek.

Malekith flexed his arms and bent his legs, trying out his new body. It
felt like his own flesh, though the burning had not lessened. Half a
dozen dead elves lay sprawled at his feet, throats slit, their blood
anointed upon his forged form. He could feel their spirits sliding
around him, trapped within the runes of the armour.

‘Not finished,’ he said. ‘My crown.’

Hotek looked confused and turned to Morathi for explanation. She
summoned an acolyte who brought forth a velvet cushion on which was
placed a circlet of dull grey metal, spikes jutting at strange angles
like a crown conceived by a lunatic.

Morathi reached a hand towards it, but Malekith grabbed her wrist. She
howled in pain and tore free from his grip, backing away. There were
burns on her flesh.

‘You cannot touch it,’ said Malekith. ‘It is not yours, it is mine.’

He took up the Circlet of Iron. It felt icy cold to his touch. While
Morathi fussed over her burnt wrist, Malekith raised the strange crown
to his head and placed it on his brow.

‘Weld it,’ said the prince. ‘Make it a piece of the helm.’

Hotek did as he was bid, striking more rivets into Malekith’s skull
before securing the circlet in place with molten metal. Malekith reached
up and tugged at the circlet, assuring himself that it could not be
removed.

Satisfied, his closed his eyes again. He let his thoughts free from his
body, tasting the dark magic seething around the dungeon chamber. He
felt the inrushing of power and rode the wave of energy, spearing up
through the roof of the chamber, passing through the many floors of his
father’s palace like a meteor called back to the stars. Anlec dwindled
below him and he shifted from the plane of mortals into a realm of pure
magic.

As at the first time he had worn the circlet, he looked at the Realm of
Chaos, the domain of the Chaos Gods. On this occasion he had no fear. He
materialised in his armoured form, burning white hot, his presence
blazing across the dominions of the Chaos Gods as a challenge.

Sentiences not of any mortal recognition stirred. Malekith felt their
attention slowly drawn towards him.

‘I am Malekith!’ he declared. A flaming sword appeared in his hand. ‘Son
of Aenarion, the daemons’ bane. Hear my name and know me, the rightful
king of the elves!’

As a comet of power, he plunged back to his body. The runes of his
armour exploded with dark flames as he re-entered his artificial form.
He opened his metal eyelids, revealing orbs of black fire.

He looked down at the elves around him. They seemed small and
insignificant. His voice echoed strangely from the mask of his helm,
filling the room.

‘I have returned,’ he declared. ‘Pay homage to me.’

All present fell to their knees, instantly obedient to his words; save
one, who fixed him with an expression of utter happiness.

‘Hail Malekith!’ cried Morathi, golden tears streaming down her face.
‘Hail the Witch King of Ulthuan!’
