
THIRTEEN 

The Malaise of Luxury

Even as Malekith embraced the destiny revealed to him by the Circlet of
Iron, far to the south on Ulthuan another elf started upon a path that
would see him brought into the fates of the most powerful princes of the
isle. An unassuming captain of the Lothern Guard, Carathril led a
handful of his company along the harbour road. His mission was secret,
known only to a few amongst the court of Eataine, but its import was
beyond reckoning. That night would set in motion a series of events that
heralded the end of the elves’ golden age.

White light blazed across the night sky, shining from the thousand
windows that pierced the walls of the Glittering Tower. Surf sparkled as
it crashed against the rocks upon which the lighthouse was built. By the
light of the Glittering Tower ships moved to and fro across the bay,
passing into and out of the great portal of the Emerald Gate, beyond
which lay the still waters of the Straits of Lothern. Their white sails
cast a ghostly shimmer over the calm waters, bathing the sea with
radiance.

Past rearing cliffs lined with towers and walls, where the spear tips of
sentries could be seen moving endlessly on their patrols, rose up the
bulk of the Sapphire Gate, its wrought silver dazzling under the magical
light of the giant gems set upon it. In the starlight beyond the
Sapphire Gate, a lagoon opened out, tranquil in its stillness, where
white beaches climbed out of the quiet waters.

Piers and wharfs crowded with ships of all sizes curved elegantly across
the waters. Small jolly boats and pleasure craft hung with golden
lanterns drifted along the shore, the laughter and conversation of their
revelling passengers echoing across the softly lapping waves. Amidst the
forest of tall masts and slender spars of white-decked merchantmen and
sleek-sided yachts, the mass of warships loomed large. Immense
dragonships rode confidently at anchor, their golden rams and
silver-chased bolt throwers shining reminders of their bloody purpose.
Darting hawkships tacked back and forth through the sea traffic, their
Sea Guard crews ever alert to any danger.

Around the lagoon, the city of Lothern stretched up into the hills.
Verdant terraces, abundant vineyards and low-built villas dotted the
hillsides, linked together by winding paths of silvery grey that
meandered from the shoreline up to the great mansions and slim towers
built upon the peaks of Lothern’s twenty hills. Quiet reigned over the
city; not the peace of contentment but a hush of apprehension.

A languid malaise blighted Lothern, just as it gripped all of the island
of the elves. Many elf-folk of Ulthuan had lost themselves in debauchery
and excess. What had begun as aesthetic gatherings, readings of darkly
poetic works and ceremonies of mutual solace, had become something far
more sinister. With blood sacrifices and twisted rituals of debasement,
the cultists now pleaded with forbidden powers for release from their
woes.

The pleasure cults had drawn in others by offering the simple thrill of
experience, for the elves had always been a people who felt sensation
and emotion strongly. Let loose from the civilities of polite decorum,
some elves had lost themselves in the raw hedonism enjoyed by the cults
of excess, indulging every perverse whim and partaking of any forbidden
deed.

Few suspected the true extent of the cults’ inveiglement into their
society, nor the secret machinations that fuelled the midnight
conferences of their shadowy leaders. Even fewer knew the true extent of
their network, for in outlook each appeared individual and disparate,
unique emerging counter-cultures within each realm and city with no
connection to the travails of the other kingdoms. So it was that Bel
Shanaar and his princes sought to quell the rising power of the cults
through political and spiritual means, hoping to forestall the
recruitment of new followers and rebalance the distressed psyche of the
elven people.

Carathril was intent upon the destruction of a cult recently uncovered
in Lothern, and to this purpose he led his warriors along the winding
streets of the city.

In the manse of Prince Aeltherin on the outskirts of the city of
Lothern, hidden amongst carefully tended orchards and perfectly
appointed gardens, a vile ceremony was reaching its climax.

The air in the marble hall of the elven lord swirled with purple and
blue vapours, which billowed from braziers wrought from the twisted
bones of animals. Intoxicated by the narcotic fumes, a sea of elves
writhed upon the red-carpeted floor. Fishermen and nobles, servants and
lawmakers lay together, rendered equally low in their depravity. Some
wept at nightmares only they could see, others laughed hysterically,
while a few simply moaned in ecstatic pleasure.

Around and about the seething mass stood a dozen priestesses, stripped
to their waists, their exposed bodies daubed with symbols drawn in the
blood of a fox, their long hair teased into dramatic spines with the fat
of the same animal.

The high priestess, Damolien, whispered a low chant, her voice all but
lost in the cacophony of joy and misery that filled the high hall. She
wore the skin of the slain fox about her shoulders, and on occasion, she
would pause and stroke her hands through its fur. Her keen senses
further heightened by the narcotic fog, Damolien quivered at the feel of
the hairs on her palms and fingers.

A quiet descended as the attendees one-by-one lapsed into a stupor, some
still sobbing quietly, others sighing with satisfaction. With a nod,
Damolien sent one of her priestesses to fetch Prince Aeltherin, the
master of the house, so that he could partake of the ceremony’s final
stage. Just as the priestess turned towards the double doors that led
from the hall, there was a tumult outside. Raised voices and a shriek
caused the priestesses to turn as one towards the doorway. Damolien
slipped the serrated sacrificial dagger from her waistband a moment
before the doors crashed open.

Prince Aeltherin careened into the room, lurching over the somnolent
bodies of his guests. Blood spilled from a cut across his chest and
crimson droplets flew from his fingertips onto Damolien’s face as the
prince tripped over a supine figure and sprawled to the ground. Warriors
in silver scale armour and wearing white sashes burst through the
doorway, their bared swords in hand. Their captain, his tall helm
decorated with threads of gold in the likeness of leaping lions, held a
sword dripping with blood. He pulled a sliver of parchment from his belt
and allowed it to fall open to show the seal of Phoenix King Bel
Shanaar.

‘Prince Aeltherin of Lothern!’ the captain called out. ‘I am Carathril,
captain of the Lothern Guard, and I have a decree for your arrest.
Surrender to the judgement of the Phoenix King!’

Like a fish flopping upon a riverbank, Aeltherin dragged himself across
the now-comatose elves littering the floor. His eyes looked pleadingly
towards Damolien.

‘Protect me,’ Aeltherin hissed.

‘Lay down your weapons and surrender in peace,’ said Carathril, his
voice calm. ‘Give yourselves over to the Phoenix King’s mercy.’

Damolien smiled. Her tongue flicked out like a serpent’s as she licked
the blood of Aeltherin from her lips.

‘Mercy is for the weak,’ she purred, and leapt lithely across the room.

Shrieking like harridans, the other priestesses followed their mistress,
their hands flexed like talons, their fingernails sharpened to long
points. Carathril leapt back from the assault, the point of Damolien’s
dagger narrowly avoiding his eye. One of his soldiers leapt forwards,
sword arm straight, and lanced his blade into the high priestess. She
fell without a sound as her disciples hurled themselves at the guards.

The priestesses were vicious and two of Carathril’s elves had fallen to
their raking claws, their throats opened up, before the killers were
despatched by the swords of their fellows. As Carathril stepped
distastefully between the unconscious pleasure-seekers, he sheathed his
sword and reached a hand out towards Prince Aeltherin.

‘Prince, you are wounded,’ Carathril said gently. ‘Come with us and we
will see that your injuries are tended to properly. Bel Shanaar wishes
you no ill, only to help you.’

‘Bel Shanaar?’ snarled the prince. ‘An upstart! Usurper! His judgement
is that of the crows feasting on a rotted carcass. I curse him! May
Nethu take him and cast him to the blackest chasm!’

With a final effort, Aeltherin, hero of Mardal Vale and protector of
Linthuin, pulled himself to his feet. With a contemptuous sneer upon his
lips, the prince snatched up one of the bone braziers, spilling its
fuming coals onto his robes. The diaphanous cloth ignited like tinder,
quickly engulfing the prince in blue flames. The flames caught on the
carpet as Aeltherin fell and soon the fire had leapt to the tapestries
hanging upon the white walls.

Running nimbly amidst the billowing smoke and deadly flames, Carathril
and his company dragged to safety as many of the insensible cultists as
they could, but the flames grew too intense and still a dozen elves lay
helpless amidst the inferno. As one of his soldiers sought to go back
into the hall, Carathril grabbed him by the arm.

‘It is too late, Aerenis,’ Carathril said. ‘The fires will claim them.
Perhaps they will now know the peace they were seeking.’
