
ELEVEN 

The Black Dragons

The army of the Phoenix King stretched along the valley in a winding
line of silver, red and green against the pale rock. Here and there
companies bearing the colours of other kingdoms broke the scheme; the
pale-green banners of spearmen from Cothique, the purple standards
flying above archers from Saphery.

There were not many, barely four thousand including the five hundred
knights of Caledor that rode in the vanguard. If the scouts were
correct, at least twice that number of druchii was marching east along
the pass, directly towards Caledor’s host. For all that, the odds were
not all in the enemy’s favour.

Maedrethnir soared easily upon the upward draughts coming from the
mountains that flanked the pass. The chill air was soothing against his
scales, cooling his blood and the fire within. Steam trailed from the
dragon’s mouth and nostrils as he banked over the army, climbing high on
a fresh rush of wind, eyes narrowed as he scanned the mountainsides for
any sign of a Naggarothi ambush.

He barely felt the weight of the throne and the Phoenix King upon his
back and for a time enjoyed the sensation of flying, allowing the
currents of the skies to move him left and right, wingtips leaving thin
streamers of vapour in their wake as he glided down through the low
cloud.

The dragon felt something else beside the wind; the pulse of magic from
the elves’ vortex. It was like a thin sheen of oil upon his body, an
acrid taste in his mouth, a distant echo in his ears. He remembered a
time when he had crossed these mountains without that sickly sensation,
when the Everqueen had ruled and the dragons had played in the skies.

Even then Maedrethnir had been old, and his memories stretched back
further still, way beyond the fall of the Old Ones and the coming of
Chaos that polluted the land. He remembered when this isle had been
nothing more than a chain of volcanoes jutting from the ocean. Newly
hatched, Maedrethnir had played with the others, hopping from fuming
peak to fuming peak on growing wings.

The air had been lighter then, and all the world colder so that the fire
inside was but a flicker, not the raging inferno he was now forced to
hold back. He rumbled unconsciously with annoyance as he remembered that
strange day, many millennia before, when the skies had been split by
multicoloured rifts and the silver starboats of the Old Ones had
appeared. The dragons had scattered, terrified by these new arrivals.
Many fled to the deepest caves and oceans, but some remained to see what
the strangers intended.

The sun had grown larger and the skies had warmed, and the Old Ones
built their temples and cities in the jungles that had thrived in the
new heat. Many of the dragons had voiced concern, calling to their kin
to fight and cast out the invaders. The oldest and wisest knew better,
and like those before them they slunk away into the dark corners of the
world and waited to see what would pass.

Amongst them had been Indraugnir, Maedrethnir’s father. With many of his
kin and friends, the ancient dragon lord had sought shelter in the caves
of the volcanoes, but even there they had not found peace. Maedrethnir
smiled and turned his head to cast a glance at the rider upon his back.
What could Caledor know of the disruption his people had caused? He knew
nothing of those worrying days and nights when the earth had ­rumbled
and the seas had roared. The Old Ones’ servants, the bloated slann, had
lifted the isle from the sea bed, the mountains belching forth smoke and
flame. The dragons trembled as the caverns they had made their home fell
around them, but Indraugnir cautioned them to stay hidden lest the Old
Ones destroy them altogether.

In time the lands settled again and the first elves came. Maedrethnir
had spied upon them from the mountain fastness with his father and
mother, protective of the new clutch of eggs hatching in the darkness
beneath the volcanoes. With the Old Ones had come that first taint of
magic, and the isle was soon steeped in its presence, lingering in every
cloud and upon every blade of grass.

For all of the intrusion, the elves had seemed peaceful enough and the
dragons had returned to their lairs and dreamed long dreams of the day
when they would be free to roam the skies as they had done before.
Indraugnir entertained his children and his allies with ancient stories
of the war with the shaggoths and the dragon ogres, and had warned about
the dark touch of the Powers Beyond the Skies that had corrupted the
dragon’s twisted cousins.

‘Look there!’ Caledor’s shout and pointing lance broke Maedrethnir’s
reverie.

The dragon shook himself from the half-dream, alarmed that the long
sleep still beckoned him even though he flew upon the winds. A shiver of
expectation ran through Maedrethnir’s body as he spied a swathe of
dark-armoured figures in the valley below; the vanguard of the druchii
army.

‘Shall we greet them?’ said the dragon.

He needed no reply and tucked his wings tight to dive down towards the
valley floor. The wind keened in his ears and rushed across his scales,
sweeping away the last somnolent after-effects of his daydream. Heart
beating fast, Maedrethnir flexed his claws in anticipation. The elves
below were scurrying to and fro in their fright as the dragon and rider
descended, their panic stirring Maedrethnir’s old hunting instincts.

He was filled with the urge to stoop and rend, to bite and rake claws
through the miniscule prey that scattered before his approach. Caught up
in predatory excitement, the dragon plunged down, wings opening to slow
his descent as he felt the fire building up in his gut, nagging at him
to unleash its fury. A roar burst forth, powered by primal desire, the
valley echoing to the blast of noise.

Black spears sped up from the scattered rocks and bushes. Maedrethnir
dipped a wing and veered as the missiles streaked past. Another volley
followed from a second repeater bolt thrower stationed guarding the
flank of the druchii, catching the dragon with two of the long shafts.
Metal screeched and wood splintered against the dragon’s hard scales as
two of the bolts bounced harmlessly from Maedrethnir’s shoulders. A
cloud of arrows from dozens of repeater crossbows engulfed the dragon,
pattering from his hide as harmlessly as rain as he crashed through the
dark storm of shafts.

More of the larger bolts flew upwards from the druchii war engines.
Twisting, Maedrethnir batted two aside with a sweep of his foreleg, the
rest missing or bouncing away from the thick scales protecting the
dragon’s shoulder.

With metal shrieking and bones snapping, Maedrethnir landed in the midst
of the archers, smashing half a dozen druchii to a pulp with the bulk of
his body. Flame erupted from the dragon’s throat, scorching everything
within reach as Maedrethnir’s neck snaked left and right, the pain from
the fire burning at his mouth and gut.

The internal fires exhausted for the moment, he heaved in a great
breath, smoke and steam coiling around his face. Caledor shouted
something from the dragon’s back but he heard not a word of it, consumed
by the need to kill. Claws swept out, slicing through armour and flesh
like swords, eviscerating, decapitating and dismembering. Turning,
Maedrethnir lunged and snapped his jaws around the body of a fleeing
elf. Metal links buckled between sword-like teeth. Sheared in twain, the
elf’s corpse dropped to the ground while rivulets of blood ran down the
dragon’s throat.

The blood incensed him more, stirring a hunger that had not been sated
for several years. Arching back his neck, Maedrethnir bellowed again,
venting flames from his nostril in the hunt-frenzy. He was dimly aware
of flashing silver around him; Caledor’s lance thrusting and slashing
through the few archers that escaped the dragon’s wrath.

He felt sharpness in his flank, the sudden pain cutting through the red
mist of desire that had swamped the dragon’s thoughts.

‘The bolt throwers!’ called Caledor. He lifted his lance to the north,
its shaft slick with bright blood. ‘Destroy the bolt throwers!’

Smelling terror and death, the scent intoxicating and addictive,
Maedrethnir fought back another surge of feral anger. He looked at his
right side, where the pain came from, and saw a barbed bolt jutting
between his ribs, just below the wing. Snarling, he pulled the shaft
free with his jaws, the spear-sized missile disintegrating into wooden
shards.

With a last slash of his tail that crushed the bodies of more druchii,
Maedrethnir launched himself from the ground, panting as he unfurled his
wings and pulled himself higher with every long stroke. The archers
quickly disappeared from view as the dragon powered towards the
mountainside where three war engines had been positioned amongst the
craggy rocks. Another hail of large darts slapped against his hide,
shedding scales but doing little serious harm. One of the crews laboured
quickly to replace the bolt magazine atop their engine, and towards this
pair the dragon angled his flight.

The druchii warriors let the heavy box tumble from their grasp as they
turned to flee, Maedrethnir smashing into the bolt thrower moments later
in a shower of jagged splinters, snapping rope and twisted metal. The
bushes and rocks provided no protection against the sheet of flame that
erupted from the dragon’s maw, razing leaf and branch, cracking stone
and charring the elven warriors within their molten armour. Another cry
from Caledor drew the dragon’s attention to the left, but too late. A
second bolt thrower loosed its salvo of half a dozen shafts, the six
spears thudding into Maedrethnir’s hindquarters and tail. Most broke
upon his scales but two punched home, their barbed points digging into
flesh. Lips rippling with anger, the dragon turned and pounced, jaws
snapping off the head from one crew member, foreclaw gouging a furrow
through mail and muscle, from groin to neck of the other.

Pausing for a moment, Maedrethnir’s nostrils widened, drawing in the
scents of battle: dread and blood, leather and crushed grass. There was
something else, something familiar yet unknown, the slightest touch on
the wind. Though he could not identify the smell, it stirred something
within the dragon, stabbing into the most primitive parts of his brain
as the bolts had pierced his hide.

A flicker of movement caught the dragon’s attention; a shadow passing
quickly across the rocks of the mountainside. Maedrethnir’s head snapped
up out of instinct and he spied a winged shape against the clouds.
Caledor had seen it also.

‘What is it?’ asked the Phoenix King.

It was too large to be a manticore or griffon, black against the pale
sky. Maedrethnir caught the scent again, shocked by realisation.

‘Drake,’ snarled Maedrethnir. ‘Corrupted and vile.’

Ignoring Caledor’s call to wait, Maedrethnir hurled himself into the
skies to confront this new threat. The other dragon sensed his approach
and turned on a dipped wing, revealing scales as black as pitch and eyes
that burned like flame. A fume of green vapours bubbled from between the
creature’s teeth, embroiling itself and its gold-clad rider in a sickly
mist.

‘A dragon?’ Caledor was awash with confusion and fear. ‘How can it be?’

‘It has been touched by the Powers Beyond the Skies,’ growled
Maedrethnir. ‘Can you not sense it?’

The black dragon was surrounded by an aura of darkness, and as the two
monsters closed on each other Maedrethnir saw that its head was encased
in an iron harness studded with black gems, reins of golden chain in the
fist of the rider. Its dark flesh bore many scars from old wounds,
testament to a cruel upbringing.

It was an abomination. Maedrethnir had known that not all the eggs that
had been laid over the centuries had been accounted for. The dragons had
believed them to have been stolen by the other predators that dared to
share their caves; bulbous-eyed, pale things that scavenged on the
remains of the dragons’ kills. Now it seemed the mystery was solved; the
eggs had been taken by the Naggarothi to hatch and raise and twist to
their cause.

‘It must be destroyed,’ snarled Maedrethnir, beating his wings faster
and faster, blood racing through his body.

He felt the butt of Caledor’s lance set against his flank as the Phoenix
King readied for the first exchange. The other dragon raced down, its
rider wielding a barbed trident. Not for an age had Maedrethnir fought
another dragon, for mate or territory, but his old instincts were still
with him. The other had the advantage of height, but was coming in too
steeply in his inexperience.

A flick of the tail and a shifting of his left wing caused Maedrethnir
to almost stop in mid-flight. The black dragon plummeted past, claws
flailing wildly at Maedrethnir’s neck and face, the rider’s trident
passing harmlessly overhead. Caledor’s lance caught the black dragon
along the back, its enchanted tip raking a bloody furrow through ebon
scales.

Maedrethnir turned and dropped after his descending foe, wings tilting
and turning as the black dragon heaved left and right to avoid the
pursuit. Smaller than Maedrethnir, the black dragon was swifter in the
turn and as Maedrethnir’s jaws snapped at his tail, the drake reversed
its course and with a rapid beat of wings shot upwards again, heading
towards the clouds once more.

More laboriously, Maedrethnir swept out of his dive and into a climb.
Each sweep of his more powerful wings brought him closer to his prey,
who vanished into the thickening cloud. Growling with irritation,
Maedrethnir soared into the white haze, eyes wide for any sign of the
other dragon.

‘Keep watch behind,’ he told Caledor.

Glancing back, Maedrethnir saw the Phoenix King peering left and right
through the cloud set swirling by each stroke of the dragon’s wings. A
screech sounded from the right, muffled by the cloud, and a moment later
the black dragon was darting from the gloom, claws outstretched.

Maedrethnir turned towards the attack, but not so swiftly that he could
avoid the swooping drake. Diamond-hard claws sank into the flesh of his
shoulder as Caledor swung his shield across and deflected the jabbing
trident of the rider, the weapon’s three tines crackling with magical
power.

The black dragon latched on, claws digging deep and deeper; a mistake.

Maedrethnir arched his neck and sank his jaws into the other beast’s
right wing, teeth sawing through skin and tendon, cracking bone. With a
scream that let forth a billowing pall of noxious vapour, the black
dragon released its grip and pushed away, damaged wing spurting blood.

The gaseous breath of the drake filled Maedrethnir’s nostrils, acrid and
burning, searing the dragon’s throat and scratching at his eyes. Choking
on the fume and momentarily blinded, the old dragon circled cautiously.
Caledor was having similar difficulty, coughing and retching, doubled
over in the throne-saddle.

The drake appeared briefly to the left, diving down through the cloud
before being swallowed by the pale mass. Maedrethnir dropped as well,
falling steeply through the sky until he burst from the bottom of the
cloud layer into open air. Rolling to his left, he arched his neck and
glared at the haze, looking for the shadow of the black dragon.

‘There!’ shouted Caledor, pointing up and to the right. A flicker of
darkness passed to and fro as the Naggarothi and his mount searched the
clouds for their foe, unaware that they were far below. ‘After them.’

Maedrethnir snorted at the implication that he needed to be told and
powered upwards with rapid sweeps of his wings. His wounds were starting
to ache, but he pushed aside the pain and flew on, arcing upwards to
come at the black dragon from directly below.

Like an erupting volcano, Maedrethnir exploded into the cloud, fire
roaring from his gullet to engulf the drake and its rider. Rolling
quickly, the black dragon avoided the worst of the blast, but the
manoeuvre brought it onto Caledor’s lance tip. The ithilmar shaft
plunged into the creature’s underbelly with a flicker of magical flame.
The black dragon gave a howl and lurched sideways, favouring its damaged
wing.

Maedrethnir flew above the enemy and then quickly plunged down, rear
claws seizing upon the creature’s scarred tail. The rider tried to swing
his trident around for a thrust but the back of the saddle-throne
prevented him. Helpless, the black dragon toppled towards the ground,
Maedrethnir upon his back, claws rending great wounds, leaving bloodied
welts all over the black dragon’s hindquarters and back.

Far below, the two armies clashed. A dark spear of Naggarothi knights
plunged through the white mass of Caledor’s spearmen while the
silver-helmed knights of the Phoenix King outflanked the Naggarothi,
curving around the enemy host in long columns. The druchii had brought
Khainite cultists with them, a splash of red and naked flesh that hurled
itself again and again towards the elves loyal to Caledor, driven back
each time by clouds of arrows and war machine bolts.

The chaotic melee became distinct lines and companies as the two dragons
plunged ever closer. Bodies littered the rocky ground of the pass, clad
both in black and white, the heaped dead testament to the bitter fury of
the two armies.

The black dragon snarled and beat its wings ferociously, trying to slow
its descent, filthy gas pouring from its wide open mouth. Maedrethnir
held firm despite the writhing and struggling of the other monster,
claws scraping against the black dragon’s spine.

Individual figures could be picked out in the battle; a captain with a
red-crested helm waving his sword towards the druchii crossbows; a
Naggarothi officer slitting the throat of a fallen spearman; wild
cultists hacking at the bodies of the fallen from both sides, ripping
free organs; a wall of lances crashing into the flank of the Naggarothi
knights as the Silver Helms charged.

No more than a bow’s shot from the ground, Maedrethnir released his grip
and opened his wings, muscles straining to stop, tendons taut almost to
parting. The black dragon twisted, blood splashing onto the rocks, wings
beating furiously, but to no avail.

With a thunderous impact, the drake and rider smashed into the rocks,
splintering stone and bone in equal measure. The harness holding the
saddle snapped with a loud crack and the throne was cast from the
dragon’s back, splintering against the sharp boulders.

Maedrethnir dived again, leaving nothing to chance. As the black dragon
struggled to right itself on twisted legs, wings broken and flopping
uselessly, Maedrethnir slammed into the drake. His jaws seized the other
dragon’s neck just behind the head, spines and fangs snapping from the
titanic pressure. His claws raked at the black dragon’s underbelly,
slashing through scale and muscle, exposing ribs and organs.

With a flap of his wings and a heave of his body, Maedrethnir leapt over
the black dragon, twisting the foe’s neck in his jaw with a loud
cracking of bone. Shaking left and right, Maedrethnir slammed the black
dragon’s head repeatedly into the rocks, dashing open its skull.
Releasing his hold, the red dragon turned and plunged his fangs into the
drake’s exposed innards, crunching through bone, tearing at its
gizzards.

Maedrethnir feasted, gorging himself on the meat of his slain rival. It
had been millennia since he had last tasted dragon flesh and he wolfed
down huge gulps, cracking open the bones to lap at the marrow. The
dragon’s blood sang through his body, drowning out the pain of his
wounds, blotting out the calls of Caledor upon his back.

Something hard cracked across the top of Maedrethnir’s skull, stunning
him for a moment. Dazed, he stumbled back from the corpse of the black
dragon, seeking the source of the attack.

‘The rider is getting away,’ said Caledor, hitting the dragon again with
the haft of his lance.

Maedrethnir growled at the impudence of the elf, to berate him so. The
dragon took a step back towards the corpse of his dead foe but was
stopped by more sharp words from the Phoenix King. Maedrethnir wanted to
shrug off the rider, to rip free of the harness that bound them
together.

Caledor snarled words that bit into Maedrethnir’s mind; words of power
discovered by the Dragontamer. Cowed, the dragon slumped to his belly
and shook his head, trying to dismiss the numbing sensation seeping
through his brain. Through the fog of insensibility, he heard Caledor’s
calm voice.

‘Your enemy flees,’ said the Phoenix King. ‘Chase him down.’

Maedrethnir looked around and spied the Naggarothi scrambling over the
rocks some distance away, one leg dragging with a limp. With a snarl the
dragon bounded quickly over the boulders, wings half-furled. He loomed
over the druchii, who turned and pulled a sword from his belt. The blade
glittered with a frozen light that hurt Maedrethnir’s eyes and he shied
back, almost blinded.

Caledor was not to be denied, his lance taking the Naggarothi high in
the chest, punching through breastplate and heart. The druchii slashed
wildly with his sword, ringing its blade from the ithilmar lance,
leaving a stream of frosty particles in the air. Caledor moved his arm,
pushing his weakened opponent to his back, pinning him to the ground.

‘Finish him,’ said the Phoenix King.

Maedrethnir raised a foreleg and stamped down, crushing helm and head
beneath his weight. Blinking away the after-image of the ice-tinged
blade, Maedrethnir regained some clarity. The hunting rage subsided, the
fire inside cooling in his belly. The dragon shuddered, feeling the
sudden pain of his injuries.

He remembered the black dragon, realising with disgust the twisted
nature of the beast.

‘I must return to my kin,’ said Maedrethnir.

‘When the battle is won,’ said Caledor.

‘No!’ the dragon replied fiercely. ‘They must be told about the black
dragons. I must pass the word, raise my kind from their slumber.’

‘When the battle is won,’ repeated Caledor.

Quick as a serpent, Maedrethnir whipped his head around, fangs slicing
easily through the bindings of the saddle-throne. Shrugging his
shoulders, he let the construction slip gently from his back, depositing
the saddle and Phoenix King unkindly upon the rocks.

‘Win your battle, little elf,’ said Maedrethnir. ‘I shall win your war.’

Before Caledor could recover and speak the taming words, Maedrethnir
launched into the air, skimming up the mountainside with swift beats,
heading south.

The smog and the night were no barrier to Maedrethnir’s keen sight. The
dragon steered between the volcanic peaks as easily as if it were noon
and not the darkest night. By the glow of lava and patches of starlight,
the dragon soared over the peaks of Caledor, mind and body alive with
disgust verging on hatred.

He descended swiftly to the valley of the caves, folding his wings as he
plunged into the largest opening. Feet scraping on rock furrowed by
millennia of dragon claws, he advanced into the darkness, laboured
breaths echoing along the wide tunnel. His right flank was sore and his
muscles ached from the two days of constant flight, but the news he bore
was too urgent to allow him rest.

He headed directly for the deepest chamber, ignoring the many other
passages that twisted away from the main tunnel. The air cooled as he
moved further and further beneath the earth, his hot breath coming in
great clouds of vapour that condensed upon rock walls worn smooth by the
scales of dragons passing in and out.

The chamber was vast, a massive hole in the world ringed with
stalactites and stalagmites larger than the towers of the elves, jutting
like the fangs of the beasts that slumbered within. Patches of luminous
moss and clouds of fireflies gave the appearance of a globe of starry
night, the dim green and orange and yellow reflected from crystal veins
in the walls and the edges of angular geodes.

The immense cavern dropped down sharply from the tunnel mouth and the
dragon opened his wings and leapt into the air, gliding effortlessly
between the upthrusts of rock. As he neared the centre of the chamber,
the dragons could be seen. A few, those that had begun the long sleep in
the last few centuries, still moved subtly, chests expanding slowly or
contracting with enormous exhalations and inhalations, the ground around
them glistening with ice from frozen vapour.

The others were immobile, only distinguished from their surroundings by
the subtle hue of their scales. Many were part of the rock, stalagmites
covering their unmoving bodies, melding the dragons with the floor.
Spines had become roots for immense pillars that stretched towards the
ceiling, limbs were like rivulets of hardened lava, covered with dully
glowing patches of lichen.

Maedrethnir settled close to the chamber’s heart, surrounded by the
eerie gloom. Save for the flutter of large insects that nested with the
dragons, nothing moved. The dragon’s claws scraped on the rock, sending
up showers of stone shards as he turned about, tail lifting to avoid the
jagged points of the smallest stalagmites.

The dragon raised himself up, gripping a pillar of rock with a foreclaw
and arching his neck. He let out a bellow, the noise filling the
chamber, echoing back and forth, rebounding from every angle. Long and
hard Maedrethnir roared, until pieces of stalactite broke from the
ceiling of the cavern, their crashes adding to the reverberating din.

Closing his mouth, wisps of fire dancing from his nostrils, the dragon
waited as the after-echoes of the noise slowly died away.

Something stirred in the darkness, a scrape of scale and scratch of
claw. Rock splinters and ice crystals tinkled to the ground as a dragon
to his left shifted its bulk, shaking off the layer of centuries. A
yellow eye half-opened in the gloom.

There was more movement and noise from all around, as slumbering dragons
shook free the drag of the long sleep, coughing dust and flame. A mighty
column of rock trembled and then shattered, spilling to the hard floor
as a green dragon almost as large as Maedrethnir arched its back, slowly
pushing itself up on four trunk-like legs.

‘Awake, my kin!’ bellowed Maedrethnir. ‘Dread times are upon us!’

Carathril stood upon the northern tower of the gatehouse, overlooking
the road into Lothern. Around him all was a wasteland. Over five years
of siege, the druchii had felled every tree and lain waste to every
field, razed every village and farm. Blackened ruins jutted from the
bare earth. The stench of death lingered in the air. In the ruins of an
outbuilding not far away Carathril could see bodies draped over the
rubble, splashes of red on their pale robes, limbs twisted unnaturally.
He had seen many such sights these past years, yet each innocent slain
raised his anger again and reminded him why the druchii had to be
stopped.

Into the square behind him marched a column of elves. They walked
wearily, toiling over the uneven white slabs, worn down in their spirits
by the battles they had fought. With bleak eyes they gazed at the
desolation, some of them weeping, others unmoved and utterly despondent,
all the more frightening for that, their gazes dead to the suffering
that had been inflicted.

‘We are too few,’ said Eamarilliel, another captain of the guard. ‘We
cannot hope to defeat the Naggarothi.’

‘They muster again,’ Carathril replied dully.

Around the city, columns of black-armoured warriors marched into
position. For weeks more ships had come, disgorging reinforcements for
the besieging army. Time and again the vessels of Lothern had sailed
forth to impede their landings, but they had succeeded only in delaying
the next assault, not halting it.

Carathril could see monstrous beasts being goaded forwards by teams of
handlers; multi-headed hydras wreathed in the fume of their fiery
breath. Drums sounded the call to war, reverberating from the city
walls.

‘We must hold,’ said the former herald, but his voice lacked conviction.

‘We are too few,’ Eamarilliel said again.

‘We were too few last time,’ said Carathril. ‘Yet the city is still
ours.’

Sullen and exhausted, the defenders of Lothern mounted the steps to the
wall and took their places at the rampart with bow and spear. From his
vantage point, Carathril could see companies of druchii embarking upon
vessels at the shore, to sail around the city and attack from the east
as well as the west.

‘I think this will be the last battle for Lothern,’ said Eamarilliel.
‘They gather every force they have to throw at us.’

The attack was heralded by a flurry of burning bolts from the Naggarothi
war machines. They targeted the great gate, the flaming shafts thudding
into the thick wood with the sound of monstrous hail. Sparks flared from
the tower and walls as more bolts crashed against the city’s defences,
spraying the defenders with ripping pieces of metal and wood and stone.

Carathril did not flinch as a bolt careened from an embrasure and
speared through three elves just to his right, impaling them against
each other. There were shouts for the wounded to be taken away as the
druchii drums rolled and the advance began.

Carathril looked down at the vast army, spreading from shore to gate, a
slowly encroaching swathe of black and purple. He was forced to agree
with Eamarilliel’s assessment. The enemy came in three great waves under
the storm unleashed by their war engines, leaving no reserves; should
the defenders somehow repel the attack there was nothing to stop them
sallying forth in pursuit of their defeated foes.

The former herald wondered what had brought about this change of
strategy. Was it confidence that the druchii would be victorious? Had
some other development forced the enemy to such decisive action?
Carathril entertained the thought for a moment, heartened by the idea
that the druchii had suffered reverses elsewhere and were stung by
desperation.

A forest of ladders rose up from the druchii host, while high towers
ground forwards amongst the spear companies, bolt throwers raining
missiles from the siege engines while iron-headed rams fashioned in the
likeness of many terrifying creatures swung on chains between their
spiked wheels. Carathril waited with spear in hand; there were not
enough arrows in the city for every warrior and so inexpert marksmen
like himself no longer had bows to use. All he could do was wait for the
foe to reach the wall.

A tower covered in wetted leathers and furs to protect against fire
arrows came straight for the gatehouse, flanked by two immense war
hydras to protect against counter-assault. It ground the dead of both
sides under its metal-rimmed wheels, barely swaying as horses and other
creatures strained at traces to bring it ever closer, whipped on by
druchii beastmasters. A ramp like the jaw of some immense monster with
metal fangs loomed over the wall, ready to be lowered to disgorge
howling Khainites within the tower.

Amongst the cacophony of battle, Carathril was distracted by another
noise; shouting from the city behind. He looked over his shoulder and
saw with horror smoke rising from the buildings around the Strait of
Lothern. Warehouses burned and he could see figures running in the
streets carrying flaming brands; the cultists had emerged in force in
response to the attack of their Naggarothi masters, perhaps brought
forth by secret communication of the besiegers’ intent.

Others on the wall had noticed the treachery unfolding within the city
behind them and they were torn between guarding their positions and
returning to the city to confront this new threat. Squadrons of knights
raced through the streets, scattering the saboteurs, but as quickly as
they were dispersed the cultists gathered again, ambushing their
would-be pursuers with stones, blades and fire.

Carathril did not know what to do. The siege tower was less than a
bowshot away, rumbling forwards steadily. Cultists were entering the
square behind the gate, no doubt intent on opening the doors to allow
the druchii within. Spearmen streamed down from the towers to protect
the mighty portal, which had withstood everything the druchii had thrown
against it for the last five years but had no defence against traitors
within.

‘Archers, hold the wall!’ Carathril called out. ‘Spearmen with me!’

As he turned towards the steps leading down towards the plaza, Carathril
came face-to-face with Aerenis; his friend led a company of his own,
promoted to captain during the long siege.

‘We must see the gate secured and then return to the wall,’ Carathril
told the other captain. ‘Follow me.’

Aerenis shook his head and stayed where he was. A feeling of dread crept
up Carathril’s spine as he noticed the strange expressions on the faces
of the soldiers in Aerenis’s company.

‘I cannot allow that, friend,’ said Aerenis.

‘What madness is this?’ demanded Carathril, pushing aside a spearman to
confront Aerenis.

‘I am sorry, Carathril,’ said the other elf, with a look of genuine
hurt. ‘You should have listened to me.’

Already unnerved, Carathril reacted out of pure instinct as Aerenis’s
sword slashed towards his throat. He caught the blade on the haft of his
spear, the weapon almost knocked from his grasp. Stunned, the former
herald barely had time to bring up his shield to ward away the following
blow.

‘Have you gone mad?’ Carathril said, batting away another swipe. ‘The
enemy will be upon us in moments!’

‘The enemy is already here,’ said Aerenis. ‘Do you not see?’

Horrified, Carathril saw that the rest of Aerenis’s company had set upon
the spearmen on the wall. Fighting broke out between the two towers of
the gatehouse, company against company, while the siege tower lumbered
ever closer.

‘Why?’ said Carathril, jabbing the point of his spear at the traitorous
captain.

‘You would keep me from beautiful Glaronielle,’ said Aerenis, sweeping
his blade towards Carathril’s legs, forcing him back into the press of
the warriors fighting behind him. ‘Ereth Khial has granted me the love I
always desired.’

‘The Queen of the Underworld?’ Carathril was shocked. He had never
suspected such a thing of his friend, even in his most melancholy of
moods. ‘That is why you betray your city?’

‘With the priests of Nagarythe to aid us, we will bring back the
departed and I shall be with Glaronielle as I could not in life.’

Carathril laughed harshly and drove his spear at Aerenis’s chest, the
attack warded away by the edge of the other elf’s shield.

‘You will be sent to Mirai to meet Glaronielle, that is sure enough,’
said Carathril. ‘The priests of Nagarythe will offer you up to Ereth
Khial for their own bargains with the Dark Queen.’

The suggestion incensed Aerenis; his expression of morose resignation
twisted into a feral snarl, eyes wild. Carathril raised his shield and
weathered a frenzy of blows, each numbing his arm with their ferocity.

‘I will see Glaronielle again!’ raged Aerenis as he rained down blow
after blow. ‘We will be together and we will wed and have children!’

‘You will certainly be together,’ snarled Carathril, despising what he
saw had become of his friend.

He turned aside the next sword blow with a twist of his shield, spinning
Aerenis to one side. In one fluid movement, Carathril lunged, his spear
piercing his friend’s side below the arm. Aerenis gave a cry of pain and
spun to the ground, sword falling from his grasp. Carathril did not
hesitate. He dragged free his spear and plunged it into the neck of
Aerenis, driving with all his strength, fuelled by anger at the
treachery of his friend. The spearpoint crashed off the stone of the
rampart, almost severing Aerenis’s head from his body.

Wrenching free his weapon, Carathril glanced over his shoulder and saw
the looming shadow of the siege tower. The traitorous spearmen had been
vastly outnumbered and were all but slain, but their turning had spread
anarchy across the gatehouse. The siege engine was less than twenty
paces away. Carathril could see the chains holding the ramp quivering,
ready to be let free.

‘On me!’ he cried, standing directly opposite where the assault would
come, lifting his spear above his head to rally his warriors ‘Fight to
the last!’

Carathril glared at the cruel face painted onto the timbers of the
tower, staring it down as if it were some real beast to be cowed. He set
his shield and spear, legs braced, and waited for the ramp to crash
down.

He heard a thunderous crack and a blast of wind threw him to the stones.
Suspecting sorcery, Carathril glanced around for a sign of Eltreneth,
though he had felt no surge of magic.

A moment later the siege tower exploded into thousands of splinters,
bloodied bodies cascading from its ruin as it toppled to the ground. A
green-scaled dragon burst from the cloud of debris, corpses and tangles
of wreckage hanging from its mouth and claws as it swept up over the
gatehouse shedding debris.

Carathril stared wide-eyed as the monstrous creature turned sharply and
dived down upon the remains of the siege tower spewing fire,
incinerating all that had survived its devastating charge.

‘There must be a dozen of them,’ muttered a spearman lying beside
Carathril.

Laughing from shock, Carathril staggered to his feet to see more dragons
sweeping back and forth across the druchii ranks. War hydras snarled and
spat flame as beasts with scales of red and green and blue and silver
and gold rampaged through the Naggarothi army, smashing war engines,
ripping swathes through the archers and spearmen, grappling with the
enslaved monsters of the druchii.

The former herald recognised the standard flying from the throne-saddle
of the largest, a massive red beast; the pennant of King Caledor. The
Phoenix King’s lance cut through armoured knights by the dozen as his
dragon slashed and snapped a bloody trail through the mounted
Naggarothi.

Carathril dropped his spear and shield and grabbed the spearman’s
breastplate, dragging him to his feet. He swept his arms around the
other elf’s shoulders and brought him into a tight embrace as tears
rolled down his cheeks.

‘Caledor is here,’ Carathril wept. ‘Caledor has come...’

There was no greater thrill than leading a flight of dragons into
battle. Dorien laughed from the joy of the experience as his mount swept
low over the army of the Phoenix King, Thyrinor, Earethien and Findeir
following behind. His dragon, Nemaerinir, rumbled in echo of his
laughter, sharing the prince’s excitement.

The army marched north, having wintered in Caledor. A brief foray into
Eataine had revealed the dire situation at Lothern, but the Phoenix King
had also been brought word of a fresh druchii offensive against
Ellyrion. The dragon riders had flown to the besieged city as swiftly as
possible, smashing the Naggarothi forces in a single afternoon while the
infantry and cavalry moved towards Tor Elyr.

Prisoners captured at Lothern had revealed a much greater threat than
Dorien could have imagined. All of Nagarythe seemed to be on the march,
striking simultaneously for Lothern, Ellyrion and Chrace. The other
kingdoms could barely muster the troops to quell the murderous cultists
within their borders and Caledor had been forced to split the dragon
princes. The Phoenix King himself had flown to the Isle of the Flame to
call a new council of the princes of the eastern kingdoms, leaving
Dorien in charge of the army.

Dorien had felt the urgency of his brother’s words as the Phoenix King
had despatched him to the north; the victory at Lothern would be for
nothing if Ellyrion was allowed to fall. Dorien had argued hard for all
of the dragon princes to fly forth to Ellyrion, but Caledor had refused,
claiming that they would be sent to fight across Ulthuan to show that
they did not fight for one kingdom alone. It seemed a nonsensical
gesture to Dorien but he had not pressed his disagreement, fearing that
too much resistance would see him replaced as general by Thyrinor or one
of the other princes.

Below the dragons the army followed a straight road that led to the
Eagle Pass, where the next druchii attack was expected. The warning had
come from Finudel and Athielle, along with a promise to march with the
army of Ellyrion. The letter had ended with an impassioned plea for aid
that had added to Dorien’s sense of haste.

Ellyrion was a land of low hills and rolling pastures, curving between
the Inner Sea to the east and the Annulii to the west. The fields the
army marched past were deserted, the famous herds of Ellyrion having
been gathered at the capital for the kingdom’s army. The scars of past
battles could be seen from the air; burned settlements and scoured
fields where the druchii had been held at bay by the Ellyrians and
Caledor’s army.

The elves marched throughout the days and for most of each night,
resting only for a short while before every dawn. Dorien fretted at the
delays, knowing that his dragon riders could have arrived at Eagle Pass
several days earlier if they had not been forced to keep pace with the
infantry and knights. Every morning he dreaded to receive a messenger
from the Ellyrians bringing word that the reinforcements had arrived too
late; every morning Dorien dreaded to look to the north-east, towards
Tor Elyr, half-expecting to see columns of smoke from a razed city.

Yet no smoke had been seen and no messenger had arrived, and the army
was less than a day’s march from the eastern end of Eagle Pass. Dorien
had commanded that the dragons fly ahead to locate the druchii army if
possible and ascertain the whereabouts of the Ellyrians. If the two
forces combined, they would be more than a match for any army of
Naggarothi – in Dorien’s opinion at least, though Thyrinor continued to
voice Caledor’s warnings against overconfidence.

It was nearing midday when Dorien first noticed darkness on the northern
horizon; a glowering storm cloud that stretched far from west to east,
lightning dancing against the black thunderhead.

‘That is no ordinary storm,’ said Nemaerinir. ‘It stinks of sorcery.’

‘That it does,’ replied Dorien, feeling dark magic blowing down on the
winds from the Annulii. ‘A conjuration of the druchii, no doubt.’

The prince signalled for the other dragon princes to fly closer. He
darted a look back and saw his army below, marching as swiftly as
possible along the road. Thyrinor drew up alongside him atop Anaegnir.

‘It seems that we arrive too late,’ said Thyrinor.

‘Perhaps not,’ Dorien called back. ‘We must fly with all haste to see
what happens.’

Rising higher, the dragons flew abreast of each other, heading directly
for the storm. As morning became afternoon, they approached the dark
cloud. The gloom had thinned somewhat and two armies could be seen
spread out on the meadows below. The dark army of the Naggarothi was
like a spear thrust between two parts of the bright Ellyrian host.

Heavily armoured knights closed in for a charge against the Ellyrian
infantry, who had their backs to a winding river on the other side of
which spread a thick forest. The Ellyrian reaver knights were further
east, an ebbing and flowing line of white horses and silver-clad riders
that charged the druchii and retreated again and again, like surf
crashing against rocks; like a receding tide, with each withdrawal they
were forced further east.

‘What’s that?’ cried Thyrinor, pointing almost directly below.

Dorien could not quite believe what he saw. It seemed as if another army
was advancing into the southern flank of the druchii; another army also
clad in black and silver and bearing banners of Naggarothi design.

‘The traitors fight amongst themselves!’ he laughed. ‘Perhaps we should
leave them to it?’

Thyrinor’s reply was drowned out by a bass growl from Nemaerinir that
shook the whole of the dragon’s body, reverberating up Dorien’s spine.

‘A black dragon,’ Nemaerinir snarled, and banked to the east.

Sure enough, an ebon-scaled drake menaced the Ellyrian cavalry, sweeping
low through their ranks.

‘Thyrinor, with me,’ called Dorien. ‘The black dragon is ours!
Earethien, Findeir, destroy the Naggarothi knights!’

The other riders lifted their lances in acknowledgement and the dragons
divided into two pairs, heading north and east.

The enemy seemed oblivious to the arrival of the dragons, undetected
against the storm clouds. The black dragon and its rider were
slaughtering the Ellyrians, each scything dive ripping a swathe of dead
and wounded through the ranks of the cavalry. As Nemaerinir dived down,
Dorien could see the target of the enemy general’s cruel attentions; a
shining figure of white and silver that rallied the elves against the
dragon’s attack. As he approached, the prince saw long locks of flowing
golden hair and knew immediately that he looked upon Athielle, ruling
princess of Ellyrion.

The black dragon crashed into her bodyguard, biting and slashing its way
towards the defiant princess. The reaver knights threw themselves into
the dragon’s path to protect their beloved ruler, only to be ripped
apart and crushed.

‘He’s mine!’ roared Dorien, lowering his lance as Nemaerinir tipped
towards the black dragon.

‘Dorien, wait!’ Thyrinor cried in return, his own mount following
behind.

The black dragon’s jaws snapped shut around the head of a horse,
decapitating it in one bite. A lash of its barbed tail speared three
more riders, buckling breastplates, smashing ribs and pulverising vital
organs.

The way was almost clear to Athielle; barely a dozen more reavers stood
in the path of the druchii commander. Dorien aimed his lance at the
dragon, judging it to be a greater threat than the Naggarothi general.

Suddenly the black dragon stopped mid-attack. The monstrous creature
arched his neck, nostrils flaring, and then turned towards Dorien as he
raced closer. The black dragon hurled himself into the air, wings
creating a downdraught that sent riders tumbling, toppling horses to
their flanks. Clouds of oily vapour formed a fog around rider and beast
as the dragon strove to gain more height.

At Dorien’s command, Nemaerinir rolled right and then turned sharply
left, the prince adjusting to aim his long lance over his mount’s neck.
The black dragon twisted away and the lance bit through the membrane of
his right wing, ripping a large and ragged hole in the scaled skin. In a
flash Nemaerinir was behind the foe, crashing his tail against the black
dragon’s flanks as it passed.

Thyrinor steered his mount higher and Anaegnir folded her wings into a
stoop, coming at the enemy from above. The druchii rider twisted in his
saddle and set the butt of his magical lance against his mount to absorb
the impact, directing the point towards the approaching dragon prince.
The black dragon lurched unexpectedly to the right, wounded wing
faltering spasmodically, pulling the druchii’s lance tip away from
Thyrinor.

Dorien gave a shout of annoyance as Thyrinor’s lance point hit home. Its
tip sheared through the Naggarothi’s breastplate in an explosion of
magical fire, lifting him from his saddle-throne with a tearing of
straps and snapping of wood. The dragon’s reins of chain fell from the
dead druchii’s grip as Thyrinor twisted his lance with a flick of his
wrist, sending the body spiralling to the ground far below.

Nemaerinir circled around and raked his claws across the other dragon’s
snout, shredding skin in a spray of thick scales. The black dragon gave
a roar and spewed forth an immense cloud of poisonous gas. Pumping his
wings, blood streaming from the injury, the black dragon turned and
raced away, heading for the Inner Sea while Dorien and his steed gagged
on the noxious fumes left in its wake.

As the filthy cloud dispersed, Dorien turned Nemaerinir after the
escaping drake, but Thyrinor flew in front of him, raising his shield to
attract his cousin’s attention.

‘The battle is far from won,’ Thyrinor called out. ‘We have more urgent
matters to attend than pursuing a wounded foe.’

Dorien glanced down and saw the truth of this. Aided by the dragon
princes, the Ellyrians were pushing forwards from the river, but the
cavalry of Athielle and Finudel were sorely pressed by massed companies
of spearmen.

‘You are right, cousin,’ said Dorien, and he felt Nemaerinir growl with
disappointment. ‘Let us earn even more gratitude from the Ellyrians by
saving their rulers!’

The two dragons descended quickly, but the Naggarothi had time to
prepare. Bolts and arrows flew up to meet them as they dived down on the
enemy infantry. Dorien gave a yell as a black-shafted missile ricocheted
from Nemaerinir’s scales and crashed against his right thigh. The
enchantments cast within his armour by the priests of Vaul protected him
from losing his leg, but pain surged from knee to hip.

‘Are you wounded?’ asked Nemaerinir, slowing in his descent.

‘It is nothing,’ Dorien snapped in reply. ‘Let us slay these wretched
Naggarothi and be done!’

It took only a few passes from the dragons to rout the Naggarothi. The
black-clad knights and soldiers streamed back towards Eagle Pass in
their thousands, harried by the dragons. Dorien noticed that the
Ellyrians did not join the pursuit and remembered the second Naggarothi
army to the south. With Thyrinor close behind, he flew towards the large
standard of Ellyrion, spying Finudel by its side.

He winced as pain shot up his leg when Nemaerinir landed not far from
the prince of Ellyrion, the jolt sending spasms up his back. Biting back
a snarl, Dorien called out to Finudel.

‘The enemy are on the run, why do you not chase them? I shall deal with
the remaining enemy.’

‘We must tend to our wounded,’ the Ellyrian shouted back. ‘And the
Naggarothi to the south are no enemies, they are our allies.’

‘How strange,’ muttered Dorien. He raised his voice. ‘I am Dorien,
brother of Caledor. You are welcome at my camp this evening.’

‘An invitation I will gladly accept,’ Finudel replied. ‘Is not the
Phoenix King with you?’

‘He has others matters that demand his attention.’

‘I understand. You have the gratitude of all Ellyrion, Dorien. Be sure
that we shall shower you with wine and gifts for what you have done for
us today. We would be destroyed without you.’

‘Yes, you would,’ replied Dorien. He realised he was being undiplomatic
and added, ‘but your bravery and skill are without question.’

‘I shall come to your camp at dusk,’ said Finudel, choosing to ignore
any slight he might have taken. ‘My thanks again.’

Dorien nodded and with a word from the prince Nemaerinir flew off.
Dorien looked eagerly west, but the Naggarothi were already at Eagle
Pass. It would be too much of a risk to follow them into the mountains
without support, and the rest of the army would never catch them.

‘Come back for some more fun, Naggarothi scum!’ he shouted at the
retreating army. ‘My friends and I will be waiting for you!’

Thyrinor was a little drunk, but he did not care. He had slain a druchii
commander that day and had been repeatedly toasted by their Ellyrian
guests. For what seemed to be the twentieth time, he described the duel
with the black dragon’s rider to an eager audience, ensuring he gave
Dorien equal credit for the Naggarothi’s death. From outside the great
pavilion of the princes came laughter and Caledorian victory songs.

When the tale was done, he begged leave of his companions and sought
another ewer of wine. He found himself at a table laden with food and
realised how hungry he was.

‘You must be very proud,’ said a voice behind him.

He turned to find Carathril of Lothern. Despite his protestations,
Caledor had reinstated him as herald of the Phoenix King, in reward for
his part in Caledor’s ascension and heroic acts recounted to Caledor by
the prince of Eataine. The herald’s expression was impassive, morose
even.

‘You make slaying the enemy sound like a bad thing,’ replied Thyrinor,
locating a crystal jug of pale wine. ‘You have killed more than your
fair share, I have heard.’

‘And one amongst them I had counted a friend,’ replied Carathril. ‘We
should not ever become enamoured of slaying other elves.’

‘No, you are right, my friend,’ said Thyrinor, shamed by the herald’s
words. ‘It is love of war that sets the Naggarothi apart from us.’

‘I hope that the king understands that also,’ said Carathril. He looked
up as another group of elves entered the tent and his brow furrowed.
‘There are some that embrace hatred as much as the druchii.’

Thyrinor followed Carathril’s troubled gaze and saw that Finudel and
Athielle had been joined by another elf; a strange individual clad in
dark hunting clothes. His pale skin and dark hair marked him out as a
Naggarothi. A quiet settled across the gathered Caledorians and the
newcomer was quickly the centre of attention. Thyrinor saw Dorien
limping towards the newcomer and sensed confrontation.

‘Excuse me, friend,’ said Thyrinor, hurrying to intercept his cousin.

‘What do we have here?’ said Dorien, his deep blue eyes regarding the
stranger with barely concealed hostility.

‘I am Alith Anar, prince of Nagarythe.’

‘A Naggarothi?’ replied Dorien with a dubious eyebrow raised, recoiling
slightly.

‘He is our ally, Dorien,’ said Finudel. ‘Were it not for Alith’s actions
I fear your arrival would have found us already dead.’

The Caledorian prince regarded Alith with contempt, head cocked to one
side. Alith returned the look with equal disgust.

‘Alith, this is Prince Dorien,’ said Finudel, breaking the awkward
silence that had rippled out through the nearby elves. ‘He is the
younger brother of King Caledor.’

The Naggarothi prince did not react to this, meeting Dorien’s stare.

‘What of Elthyrior?’ Athielle asked, as Thyrinor reached the group. He
had never heard of the elf of whom she spoke. ‘Where is he?’

‘I do not know,’ Alith replied with a shake of the head. ‘He is where
Morai Heg leads him. The raven heralds took their dead and vanished into
Athelian Toryr. You may never see him again.’

‘Anar?’ said Thyrinor, remembering the name the Naggarothi had used. He
was from the house of Eoloran Anar, one of the noblest bloodlines in
Ulthuan, yet looked as if he had spent his whole life in a backwater
village. ‘I have heard this name, from prisoners we took at Lothern.’

‘And what did they say?’ asked Alith.

‘That the Anars marched beside Malekith and resisted Morathi.’ He
extended a hand. ‘I am Thyrinor, and I welcome you to our camp, even if
my intemperate cousin will not.’

Alith shook the proffered hand quickly. Dorien snorted and turned away,
calling for more wine. As he marched off through the crowd, Thyrinor saw
the Naggarothi’s eyes following him, narrowing as he noticed Dorien’s
limp.

‘He is in a grumpy mood,’ said Thyrinor. ‘I think he has broken his leg,
but he refuses to allow the healers to look at it. He’s still full of
fire and blood after the battle. Tomorrow he will be calmer.’

‘We are grateful for your aid,’ said Athielle. ‘Your arrival is more
than we could have hoped for.’

‘We were brought word of the druchii marching along the pass four days
ago and set out immediately,’ said Thyrinor. ‘I regret that we cannot
stay here, for we are needed in Chrace. The enemy have all but overrun
the mountains and the king sails with his army to thwart them at the
border with Cothique. Tomorrow we continue north and then through
Avelorn to strike at the druchii from the south. Today is an important
victory, and Caledor recognises the sacrifices made by the people of
Ellyrion.’

Alith turned away and Thyrinor saw the Naggarothi’s fists clench and his
shoulders hunch.

‘Alith?’ said Athielle, stepping towards the Naggarothi. Thyrinor
noticed the pain in her expression and shared a concerned look with
Finudel. The Ellyrian prince subtly shook his head as a warning against
any remark. Alith turned back to the princess.

‘I am sorry,’ said Alith. ‘I cannot share your enthusiasm for today’s
victory.’

‘I would think you happy that Kheranion is dead,’ said Finudel, joining
his sister. ‘Is that not some measure of payment for your father?’

Thyrinor had paid little attention to the ongoing saga of the Anars. In
that, he shared Dorien’s view that Naggarothi killing Naggarothi was no
bad thing. He spied a servant passing with a golden tray filled with
wine goblets and swiped a fresh glass.

‘No,’ Alith said quietly. ‘Kheranion died swiftly.’

Athielle and Finudel fell silent, shocked by Alith’s words. Thyrinor
stepped up beside Finudel, proffering a goblet towards Alith. The
Naggarothi prince took it reluctantly.

‘Victories have been few for us,’ said the Caledorian. He raised his own
glass in toast to Alith. ‘I give you my thanks for your efforts and
those of your warriors. Were the king here, I am sure he would offer you
the same.’

‘I do not fight for your praise,’ said Alith.

Thyrinor bit back a retort at the Naggarothi’s rudeness and took a sip
of wine.

‘Then what do you fight for?’ asked Thyrinor.

Alith did not reply immediately. He looked towards Athielle and his
expression lightened a little.

‘Forgive me,’ Alith said with a slight smile. ‘I am weary. Wearier than
you can possibly imagine. Ellyrion and Caledor battle for their freedom
and I should not judge you for matters that are not your
responsibility.’

Alith took a mouthful of wine and gave a weak nod of appreciation. He
raised the goblet beside Thyrinor’s and fixed his gaze upon the
Caledorian.

‘May you win all of your battles and end this war!’ Alith declared. His
eyes flickered away for a moment before returning to meet Thyrinor’s
bemused stare. The Caledorian saw emptiness of spirit in that gaze and
was forced to look away, suppressing a shudder.

‘We should not impose upon you any longer,’ said Finudel, guiding
Athielle away with a touch on her arm. Alith gazed longingly after her
for a moment before he returned his stare to Thyrinor.

‘Will you fight to the last, against all hope?’ Alith asked. ‘Will your
king give his life to free Ulthuan?’

‘He will,’ replied Thyrinor. ‘You think that you alone have reason
enough to fight the druchii? You are wrong, so very wrong.’

Alith’s presence was deeply unsettling. Thyrinor turned away and called
for Dorien, feigning concern for his cousin so that he could leave the
Naggarothi alone. He joined Dorien with the other Caledorian princes at
the centre of the pavilion, downing the contents of his goblet.

‘I don’t know about you, but I think I prefer it when the Naggarothi are
not on our side,’ he said in a hushed voice, fearful that the Anar
prince would hear him.

‘I don’t trust him,’ said Dorien, staring over Thyrinor’s shoulder to
where Alith was in deep conversation with Carathril. ‘Finudel is a fool
for allying with his sort. Believe me, that Anar will turn out to be a
traitor and I would have my throat slit before I agree to fight
alongside him. Better that than a knife in the back.’

Thyrinor eyed Alith Anar with suspicion, knowing the truth of his
cousin’s words. It was not just the Naggarothi’s words and demeanour
that bothered him. There was a darkness of the spirit that permeated the
core of Alith, and Thyrinor wanted no part of it. Turning away, he
pushed the Naggarothi from his thoughts and spied a group of Athielle’s
handmaidens looking appreciatively at him across the pavilion.

Securing himself a fresh goblet of wine, he headed towards them with a
smile.
