
TWELVE 

Primordial Foes

A kaleidoscope of clashing colours swarmed around Malekith. He was
filled with the peculiar sensation of rising high up into the air whilst
at the same time plummeting down towards some bottomless depth. His head
swam and his skin tingled with power. He was lost in sensation, his
whole being pulsing and vibrating with unknown energy.

In time – moments or an eternity, Malekith could not tell – the swirling
colours began to coalesce around him. They formed into a nightmarish
landscape above the centre of which floated the elf prince. The skies
boiled with fire and black clouds, and beneath him stretched an arcane
plateau that stretched on for infinity: the Realm of Chaos.

In one direction Malekith spied an unending garden, forlorn and
decaying, filled with drooping willows and sallow grasses. A miasma of
fog and flies drifted up from the overgrown copses of bent and withered
trees, and rivers of oozing pus gurgled between fronds of clinging fungi
and piles of rotted corpses. Marshes bubbled and boiled and pits of tar
gurgled, spewing gaseous vapours into the thick air.

At the centre of the unkempt morass rose up a mansion of titanic
proportions: a grandiose but tottering edifice of crumbling stone and
worm-eaten wood. Peeling paint and flaking brick stood upon cracked
stone and bowed beams, crawling with sickly yellow ivy and immense black
roses. Fumes belched from a hundred chimneys and gargoyle-headed pipes
spat and drooled gobbets of ichor across cracked tiles and mouldering
thatch.

In the smog and gloom shambled daemons of death and plague; immensely
bloated creatures with pustulant flesh and pox-marked skin, and
slobbering beasts with slug-like bodies and fronds of tentacles
dribbling noxious emissions. Swarms of boil-like mites scrabbled over
the sagging walls and roofs of the manse, while a legion of cyclopean
daemons, each with a single cracked horn, meandered about the wild
gardens chanting sonorously.

Turning his gaze from the filth and squalor, Malekith then looked upon a
mighty citadel made up of glimmering mirrors and crystal. Its surface
shimmered with a rainbow of colours, translucent yet transparent,
shifting with eddies and swirls of magic. Doors yawned like devouring
mouths and windows stared back at the prince like lidless eyes. Fires of
all colours billowed from the spires of thin towers, sending fountains
of sparks trailing down to the ground below.

All about the bizarre palace was an immense maze, of shifting walls of
crystal. The twisting, contorted pathways overlapped above and below,
and passed across each other through unseen dimensions. Arcing gateways
of flame linked parts of the immense labyrinth together, flickering from
blue to green to purple and to colours not meant to be seen by mortals.

The skies about the horrifying tower were filled with shoals of
creatures that climbed and swooped upon the magical thermals, shark-like
and fearsome. Formless, cackling things cavorted and whirled about the
maze, flashing with magical power. Daemons with arms that dripped with
fire bounded manically along the winding crystal passages, leaping and
bouncing with insane abandon. Malekith felt his eyes drawn back to the
impossible fortress and saw that a great gallery had opened up.

Here stalked arcane things with multi-coloured wings and bird-like
faces, with contorting staves in their hands and robes of glistening
pink and blue. One of the creatures paused and looked up at him. Its
eyes were like pits of never-ending madness, deep oceans of swirling
power that threatened to draw him into their depths for eternity.

Breaking that transfixing stare, Malekith then looked upon a blasted
wasteland, surrounded by a great chain of volcanoes that spewed rivers
of lava down their black sides and choked the air with their foul soot.
Immense ramparts were carved from the mountainsides, huge bastions of
dread hung with skulls and from whose jagged battlements fluttered a
thousand times a thousand banners of red.

Within the encircling peaks the land was rent by great tears and chasms
that welled up with blood like wounds, as if it had been constantly rent
by the blows of some godly blade. The skeletons of unimaginable
creatures were piled high amongst lakes of burning crimson, and all
about were dunes made of the dust of countless bones. Hounds the size of
horses with red-scaled flesh and enormous fangs prowled amongst the
ruination, their howls tearing the air above the snap and crack of bone
and gristle.

At the heart of this desolation grew a tower of unimaginable proportion,
so vast that it seemed to fill Malekith’s vision. Of black stone and
brass was it made, tower upon tower, wall upon wall, a castle so great
that it would hold back the armies of the whole universe. Gargoyles
spouted boiling blood down its brazen fortifications, and red-skinned
warriors with wiry frames and bulbous, horned heads patrolled its
ramparts. Upon its highest parapet there stood a thing of pure fury;
rage given bestial, winged form. It beat its broad chest and roared into
the dark skies.

Shuddering, Malekith turned fully about and stood bewitched by a
panorama of entrancing beauty. Enchanting glades of gently swaying
emerald-leafed trees bordered golden beaches upon which crashed
white-foamed waves, while glittering lakes of tranquil water beckoned to
him. Majestic mountains soared above all, their flanks clad in the
whitest snow, glistening in the unseen sun.

Lithe creatures clad in the guise of half-maidens cavorted through the
paradise, laughing and chattering, caressing each other with shimmering
claws. Across emerald meadows roamed herds of sinuous beasts whose
bodies shimmered and changed colour, their iridescent patterns
hypnotising to the elf prince. Malekith felt himself drawn onwards,
ensnared by their beauty.

Suddenly realising his peril, Malekith tore his gaze away from the
mesmerising vision. He became distinctly aware that he was being watched
and could feel the attention of otherworldly beings being turned in his
direction. Feeling as if his soul were about to be laid bare and flayed
before the gaze of the Chaos Gods, Malekith felt terror gripping him. He
sought somewhere to flee, but in every direction spread the domains of
the Dark Gods. With a last dread-driven effort, he wished himself away
and was surrounded again by the twirling energies of magic.

When his vision had cleared again, Malekith found himself hovering far
above the world, as if stood upon the edge of creation itself and
looking down upon the realms of men and elves and dwarfs and every other
creature under the sun. He could see the jungle-swathed forests of
Lustria where lizardmen scuttled through the ruins of the Old Ones’
cities. He saw orc tribes massing in the blighted wilderness, carpeting
the ground in tides of green.

Over everything drifted the winds of magic, now more clear to him than
they had ever been. The prince saw them streaming from the shattered
Gate of Chaos in the north and spreading out across the northlands. He
saw the vortex of Ulthuan as a great swirl of power, drawing the energy
out of the world. He saw sinkholes of darkness and blazing mountains of
light.

In that instant it all became clear to Malekith. The whole world was
laid out before him, and he saw as perhaps only his mother had before
seen. There were torrents of power that swept across the lands untapped
by mortal kind. The very breath of the gods sighed over oceans and
plains, down valleys and across forests. From Chaos came all magic,
whether good or ill. It was stunning in its beauty, just as a
storm-tossed sea can enthral those not caught in its deadly grip.

Malekith lingered awhile, now aware of the crown burning upon his head.
It acted as some kind of key, some artefact created by the races that
had come before the rise of elves, before even the coming of the Old
Ones. It would be easy for him to stay here forever, marvelling at the
rich, random choreography of the dancing winds of magic. He could spend
an eternity studying their heights and depths with the circlet and still
not unlock all of their secrets.

Something nagged at his mind however, a sensation deep within his soul
that threatened to break his reverie.

Yeasir struggled to his knees, still weak from the magical blast that
had cast him down. The alarmed shouts of his comrades grew more urgent
as the skeletons began to advance up the steps towards the Naggarothi.
Crawling to the edge of the uppermost level, he looked down to see the
unliving legion marching implacably onwards, each stepping in
synchronicity with all the others, guided by common purpose or will. The
arrows of the elves had little effect, most bouncing harmless from the
glowing bones of their enemies, others simply passing through them as if
they were nothing more than ghosts.

As the first line of skeletons reached the uppermost step, the
Naggarothi struck out with their spears, driving silvered points into
skulls and ribcages. This had more effect than the arrows and no few
skeletons crumbled into bones, their golden light ebbing and then
disappearing. Their advance was as inevitable as the coming of the tide
though, and even as the first rank fell the second stepped forwards, and
the third, and the fourth.

The skeletons’ blades were as keen as the day that they had been forged,
despite the passage of ages, and they bit into shield and flesh as the
skeletons attacked back. Cries of pain and fear began to reverberate
around Yeasir as he struggled to pull free his own sword, but the
scabbard was pinned beneath him and he had not the strength to lift
himself from it.

The elf to Yeasir’s left gave a cry and toppled down the steps as an
unearthly blade slashed through his throat. The skeleton took another
pace forwards into the space the elf had occupied and turned its
grinning face towards Yeasir. It raised its arm above its head, the
wicked black blade in its hand sparkling with golden light. Yeasir gave
a cry and tried to push himself away, but the skeleton stepped forwards
again, ready to strike. The captain pulled his shield in front of him
just as the sword swung down, and the undead thing’s blade rang against
it with a dull crash.

Again and again the sword smashed upon the shield, with relentless,
metronomic ferocity. After the tenth blow, all the strength was gone
from Yeasir’s arms and the eleventh strike smashed the top of the shield
into his face, stunning him. Dazed, he could do nothing as the
skeleton’s sword arm rose high again. He stared into the guardian’s
eyes, seeing nothing but pits of darkness.

The golden light that filled the room flared into white intensity,
blinding Yeasir. He shrieked and knotted his eyes shut, expecting to
feel the bite of the unnatural blade any moment. No blow came and Yeasir
opened a single eye, fearful of what he might see. The skeleton still
loomed above him, arm upraised, but its aura had dimmed to a faint glow
and it stood utterly motionless.

Yeasir opened his other eye and dared to let out his breath. The captain
then heard harsh laughter from behind him and turned his head slowly,
wondering what other fearful apparition awaited him.

Malekith stood in the centre of the dais, the circlet upon his head
blazing with power. His face was drawn but he was filled with a glow of
energy. His expression was one of disdain, divine yet strangely cruel.
His gaze was distant. The prince looked at Yeasir for a long while but
did not appear to actually see him. The prince flung out an arm and with
the gesture the skeletons came to life once more, turning upon their
heels and marching back down the steps. Panting with relief, Yeasir
watched as they returned to their plinths and once again took up their
immobile vigil.

With the power of the crown, Malekith could see the magical forces
binding the skeletons together and the ancient commands that blazed
within their empty skulls. It was simplicity itself to order them to
stop, and then with another thought the prince bid them to return to
their eternal slumber. All about him the hall was filled with great
golden arches and glittering pillars, unseen to all except him.

Given extraordinary awareness by the circlet he could look upon the
magic of the ancient architects of the city, the curving galleries and
arching balconies constructed from mystical forces that even he had been
unaware of. This was why the chamber was devoid of other magic, for it
contained its own power, far stronger than that of the fitful winds of
magic. Just as air cannot pass into a solid object, so too the winds of
magic found no room to creep into the enchantment-filled chamber.

Now gifted the insights granted by the crown, there was no telling how
acutely the Naggarothi prince might master the power of Chaos. With the
circlet to act as his key, Malekith could work such spells as would make
the witchery of Saphery seem insignificant. Had he not looked upon the
realm of the Chaos Gods itself? Did he not now know their lands, and had
he not dared them and survived?

Elation filled Malekith, more majestic than any triumph he ever felt
before. His mother had warned that Chaos was the greater enemy; the
perils of orcs and the armies of the beastmen paled into insignificance
against those legions of daemons that Malekith had seen. The Chaos Gods
plotted and waited, for they had an eternity to ponder their plans and
to make their schemes. The elves could not shelter behind the power of
the vortex forever, Malekith realised, for he had felt the slowly
growing power of the Chaos Gods even as he had stood in their midst.

It all came together in the prince’s mind. The men of the north were
vassals of the Dark Gods, and as they prospered and multiplied, so too
would the influence of their ineffable masters. There might come a day
when the bulwark of the vortex would fail, and again the hordes of Chaos
would be unleashed upon the world. Ulthuan was utterly unprepared for
such an eventuality. Bel Shanaar could not hope to meet such a threat.
It was an apparent truth to Malekith that he alone, with the power of
the circlet, now bore the means by which the elves might be protected
from this greater doom.

Slowly, with much effort, Malekith took the crown from his head. The
great magical architecture faded from his vision and he found himself
back in the strangely angled hall beneath the prehistoric city. His
Naggarothi surrounded him, staring at their lord with eyes full of
wonder and fear.

Malekith smiled. He now knew what he must do.
