
five 

The High King

Malekith was eager to continue their journey to the hold of the High
King, and was grateful that Kurgrik apparently had a schedule of his own
to keep. The thane’s shipment of wood was sorely needed for the mines
beneath Karaz-a-Karak, and the party, dwarfs and elves, left the city of
Karak Kadrin early the next day.

The king came to wave them off, and seemed much more approachable and
friendly away from the formality of his court. He shook the hands of
each of the elves in turn, and patted Malekith fondly on the arm. He
said something in dwarfish, and Malekith smiled and nodded, not
bothering to listen to Alandrian’s translation.

Malekith and the party did not travel back to the main gates, but were
taken by an underground route to another entrance. Though slightly less
grand, this portal was no less impressive to the prince, for it led not
to the surface but to a vast passageway dug through the bedrock of the
mountain. Due south it struck, paved with flags and large enough for
many carts and dwarfs to pass each other by with ease.

Lanterns lit the underground highway, and the walls were hewn so
smoothly that no shadow darkened them. Great pillars of wood and metal
shored up the roof, which was easily four or five times the height of an
elf.

For this stage of the journey, they travelled upon the backs of rocking
carts. It was not entirely unpleasant, though the lack of night and day
began to wear upon Malekith’s nerves. After three days, he wondered just
how far this tunnel was. After six, he was longing for a sight of sun or
stars, or even a storm-filled sky.

Periodically they came across guard stations, not unlike underground
versions of the way-forts they had stayed in on the surface. Warriors
with strange-looking, mechanical bows patrolled outwards from these
subterranean castles.

Branchways and side tunnels broke off from the main road in clustered
junctions, and there was always a steady traffic of dwarfs on wagons and
on foot. They carried all manner of goods with them: metal ingots, sacks
of coal, bushels of crops, mining tools and all manner of other wares.

By the eighth day, Malekith’s interest had been restored, for he was now
fully realising the extent of the dwarfen realm. They had covered no
less than fifteen leagues each day, and so had travelled three hundred
and sixty miles or more. The highway went pretty much straight and so he
guessed that they were still heading south. If the side passages and
other exits each led to other holds and settlements, then the mountains
were swarming with dwarfs.

Some of the prince’s earlier arrogance dissipated as he pondered the
huge implication of an alliance with these people. If the Naggarothi
could forge this friendship with speed, then his people would increase
the power they already held in the colonies.

Knowing this, he now paid more attention to the dealings the dwarfs had
with each other, and tried harder to get a rough grasp of their language
from Alandrian. He endeavoured to learn the names of his dwarfish
companions: outlandish monikers such as Gundgrin, Borodin, Hagrun and
Barrnok. He learned the words for sword, and axe, and that this highway
was called the Ungdrin Ankor.

He learned their word for gold, and another, and another, until he was
thoroughly confused. During a break, Malekith steered Alandrian into a
quiet alcove and confronted his lieutenant on the matter.

‘Azgal, churk, bryn, galaz, gnolgen, gorl, konk, thig, ril, skrottiz…’
Malekith complained. ‘All of these hideous words, and I cannot work out
which one means gold! How am I supposed to learn this stupid language?’

‘They all mean gold, highness,’ Alandrian said patiently.

‘Gold’s gold!’ said Malekith. ‘Why do they need so many damned words for
it?’

‘Gold is, indeed, gold, highness,’ said Alandrian, pulling a neck chain
from under his robe, upon which hung a small dwarfish amulet he had been
gifted by Kurgrik. ‘To a dwarf, however, there are lots of types of
gold. The gold on the outer edge, with the reddish tinge, is konk. The
inner design is made from a slightly softer metal that they call gorl.’

‘I understand,’ said Malekith, not understanding at all. Alandrian read
the doubt on the prince’s face.

‘We see one metal, which we call gold,’ the captain explained slowly,
placing the amulet back under his robe. ‘The dwarfs see all sorts of
different metals and they have a name for each one.’

‘So, each word means a different type of gold?’ Malekith said. ‘Soft
gold, hard gold, shinier gold, that sort of thing?’

‘That sort of thing, yes, highness,’ said Alandrian with a reassuring
nod.

‘But there can’t be that many types of gold, surely?’ said Malekith.

‘Not physically, no,’ Alandrian said. His face screwed up in
consternation as he worked out how to explain further. ‘To the dwarfs,
gold has other qualities, not just physical ones.’

‘Such as?’ Malekith said.

‘Well, there is lucky gold, for a start,’ said Alandrian.

‘Lucky gold?’ Malekith’s brows arrowed into a frown.

‘Gold that was found by accident, for example,’ replied Alandrian.

‘Seems strange, but then they are a strange folk,’ said Malekith.

‘The type of gold also changes depending on where it came from, where it
currently is and its own history,’ Alandrian continued under the
prince’s demanding stare. ‘There’s a word for gold that is an ingot and
hasn’t yet been made into something. There’s a different word for gold
that was once made into something else but has been melted down to make
something new. There’s gold that is for spending, what they call
impatient, and gold that is for keeping. That’s almost the same word as
they use for waiting or patience. Then there’s gold that you don’t own
yet, such as ore or a loan. Of course, that also means there are words
for gold that you would like to own, or once owned–’

‘Enough!’ snapped Malekith. ‘So, they have lots of words for gold. I
cannot be expected to learn them all.’

‘Oh no, highness,’ said Alandrian. ‘Not even the dwarfs know all the
names for gold, apparently. They can make up any name for gold they like
and another dwarf will probably understand what they mean.’

Alandrian cast a look over his shoulder at the dwarfs climbing back on
the wagons, making ready to leave.

‘It’s probably best not to mention gold too much, in any case,’
Alandrian said. ‘Whenever I mention it, they get a queer look in their
eyes. Some of them get quite excited. I once mentioned the golden gates
of Lothern and Kurgrik almost fainted!’

‘So, it is best not to tell them that we have huge treasuries in Athel
Toralien?’ said Malekith. ‘Just in case they come over funny and decide
to try to take it?’

‘Yes, highness, something like that,’ said Alandrian.

Malekith nodded knowingly and glanced over his companion’s shoulder to
see Kurgrik scowling ever so slightly in the prince’s direction.
Malekith smiled cheerily and waved, trying to ignore the picture he had
of the thane frothing at the mouth and pawing at a coin.

On the tenth day they turned from the main road, heading west as far as
Malekith could judge. Here the traffic increased considerably and
Malekith surmised that the capital was not far away. Kurgrik was more
animated, and from the comparatively few words that the prince had
learned and through the translation of Alandrian, it seemed that they
would be at their destination the next day.

Malekith became agitated the closer they came to their destination, and
constantly harangued Alandrian to find out more about the dwarfs, and in
particular, their High King. On this, Kurgrik proved strangely reticent,
saying only that his name was Snorri Whitebeard, and that he was the
first to rule over all the holds. The following day, Malekith was to
meet this dignitary.

As the caravan readied for the march, Malekith took out his finest cloak
from his stores; purple embroidered with golden thread in a design of
two dragons coiling about each other. The prince scented his hair with
perfumes from his pack, and swept it back over his shoulders with a
silver band embellished with five rubies and three diamonds, each cut
and polished into an oval as large as a fingertip. Feeling suitably
regal, he sat on the wagon at the front of the column alongside Kurgrik.
His pride was somewhat punctured by the fact that he had to almost tuck
his knees under his chin to fit on the seat.

The gateway from the Ungdrin Ankor to the capital of the dwarf realm was
a wide set of golden doors mounted upon a series of gears and cogs that
allowed them to be opened effortlessly with a single push despite their
immense weight. They were inscribed with many vertical lines of runes,
each separated by a sparkling diamond.

The gates were flanked by two pillars of black marble, intricately
carved with ancestor faces that glowered at all who approached. The
tiles of the floor had an endless array of designs upon them. Kurgrik
said something to Alandrian.

‘Every clan symbol of the hold is carved into these stones,’ Alandrian
explained.

Malekith accepted this without word and turned his warrior eye to the
gates’ defences. Side chambers with stout iron doors looked out upon the
corridor, with shuttered windows and murder holes so that defenders
could pour arrows into any attacker from almost complete safety. A
glance up revealed other openings through which oil could be poured.

Malekith noted all this and, combining it with what he had seen of the
great gate of Karak Kadrin, decided that the holds were all but
impregnable. With the Ungdrin Ankor to link the cities underground, even
protracted siege was impossible, for unless one could control the
subterranean highway, there was no way to cut off supplies. Despite
these formidable defences, Malekith knew that no stronghold was ever
totally secure, but such would be the cost of taking such a city, it was
far better to broker a friendship with these people than to anger them.

Dismounting from their carts, Kurgrik and his companions were met with
slaps on the back and hearty greetings from their fellow dwarfs as the
party passed into the hold. There were curious looks from these dwarfs
at the elves, but nothing like the amazement and interest they had
raised in Karak Kadrin.

As they progressed into Karaz-a-Karak, the feeling grew more pronounced;
these dwarfs already seemed familiar with elf-kind. Recalling Kurgrik’s
first reaction to Malekith, it seemed that in retrospect the thane had
not been surprised to see the elves in and of themselves, but rather to
find them in that place.

Malekith’s fears were confirmed when they were conveyed by an escort of
heavily armed warriors to the throne room of the High King. The chamber
was even larger and more opulent than that of Karak Kadrin, and was hung
with so many shields, banners and gold emblems that barely a patch of
rock could be seen between them. The entire floor was tiled with gold
and inset with rubies, and the ceiling was awash with lanterns. More
than a hundred steps led up to the dais upon which a large throne was
set, similarly bedecked with gold and jewels. Dozens of dwarfs of noble
dress and bearing were gathered about the hall.

Most notable of all, and to which Malekith’s eyes were immediately
drawn, were the two elves stood beside the throne in deep conversation
with the king.

One, the prince recognised immediately. He was Prince Aernuis of
Eataine, a renowned admiral who had led some of the first ships across
the ocean. Nothing had been heard from him for over forty years and it
had been widely thought that his expedition had been lost. The reason
for his long absence suddenly became clearer to Malekith, and he felt
his anger rising at the secretive nature of the prince’s dealings with
the dwarfs.

The other elf was unknown to the ruler of Nagarythe, but by his bearing
Malekith assumed him to be one of Aernuis’s councillors. Detecting a
change in the atmosphere of the chamber, the elves looked up and saw
Malekith striding into the throne room. Though it was hard to tell in
the fierce light, it seemed to the prince that their pale faces blanched
just a little more.

Kurgrik hurried ahead of Malekith to present the prince to the High
King, who was sat on his throne with an elbow upon his knee, his chin
rested on his clenched fist. He sat up attentively as Kurgrik
approached, and listened intently as the thane spoke for a long while.
With a nod, the king directed his stern gaze towards Malekith.

‘Happy welcome you are to Karaz-a-Karak,’ said Snorri Whitebeard, and
Malekith flinched at the mangling of his native tongue, even as he was
surprised by the High King’s use of it.

‘Hello, king,’ Malekith replied in his finest Dwarfish, regaining his
composure as quickly as he was able. He ignored the smirks upon the
faces of Aernuis and his retainer, and saw neither amusement nor anger
in the expression of Snorri. ‘I Malekith.’

At this the king gave a satisfied nod, and gestured for Malekith to
approach up the long stair. Malekith glanced over his shoulder towards
Alandrian, and gestured for the lieutenant to follow him. His cloak
billowing behind him, the prince of Nagarythe strode up the steps two at
a time.

‘Malekith?’ said the elf whose name the prince did not know. ‘You are
the last person we expected to see here.’

‘So it would seem,’ replied Malekith. ‘You know me, yet I do not know
who you are. Please inform my companion, Alandrian, so that I might know
the name of the impudent elf I shall soon slay for not using my full
title.’

‘Sutherai,’ the elf stammered quickly, casting a fearful glance at his
prince. Malekith raised an eyebrow in displeasure.

‘Your highness,’ Sutherai added with a visible shudder.

The High King watched this exchange with what appeared to be an
expression of interest, having obviously noted the tone in Malekith’s
voice and that of Sutherai, if not perhaps understanding fully what had
passed between them. Snorri then looked intently at Aernuis, who put on
his most obsequious smile and said something in Dwarfish.

‘Outrageous!’ spat Alandrian from behind Malekith, and the prince turned
on his lieutenant with an inquisitive glare. There was also a look of
shock upon the face of Sutherai, and one of sudden contrition upon
Aernuis.

‘The prince just described you to the king as a minor noble, as far as I
am able to understand,’ Alandrian explained quietly, before quickly
adding, ‘But do not react too harshly before the High King, I feel that
Aernuis has closeted himself closely in his court.’

Malekith absorbed these words and fought back his anger.

‘Please announce to the High King my full title, rank and line, so that
he might better understand with whom he is meeting,’ Malekith said
evenly, his eyes piercing holes into Aernuis.

Alandrian spoke at some length, and Malekith realised that his companion
was indeed relating every title and rank that Malekith held. The king
did not seem overly impressed, but cast a sideways glance at Aernuis,
before replying to Alandrian.

‘King Snorri asks why it is that elves feel the need to have so many
titles,’ Alandrian said. ‘He is known simply as the High King.’

‘Because we value prestige and rank more than you cave-dwelling
savages,’ was Malekith’s mental retort, but he curbed his tongue and
paused before replying.

‘Tell him that such titles are used only rarely,’ Malekith said after a
moment’s thought, ‘such as when lesser nobles forget their place and
display a lack of respect.’

This Alandrian truly translated as best he could, and the king looked at
Aernuis with a deeper frown, his jaw churning as he considered the
events unfolding about him. After a pregnant pause that lasted quite
some time, Snorri met Malekith’s gaze and there was a peculiar twinkle
in his eye. The king then broke into a grin, before laughing out loud.
Malekith found himself smiling also, for the High King’s amusement was
genuine, and there was no hint of mockery in his expression.

Snorri pushed himself from his throne and strode up to Malekith, before
grasping his hand and vigorously shaking it and slapping him on the arm.
As Snorri returned to his chair of office, Malekith could not stop
himself directing a sly smile towards Aernuis while the High King’s back
was turned, which infuriated the rival prince even further.

The king then muttered something in Dwarfish and ushered them all away
with a shooing gesture. Malekith paused to bow before he turned,
thinking it prudent to cement this small victory while he could. Aernuis
walked beside him as they made their way down the steps.

‘Three years I have been here,’ Aernuis declared. ‘In that time I have
worked long and hard to build up the High King’s trust for me. You
cannot simply stroll into Karaz-a-Karak and expect to be given equal
rights as me.’

‘Remember whom you are addressing, Aernuis,’ replied Malekith. ‘I know
that these folk despise kinslaying even more than our own people, but if
I do not get satisfactory answers from you, I will have your throat
slit.’

‘In these halls, your threats are idle,’ said Aernuis with a snort. ‘I
have the protection of King Snorri; if you try to cause me harm, it
would be like an assault upon the High King himself.’

‘We shall see how long that favour lasts,’ said Malekith. ‘You cannot
hide beneath his beard forever, prince. You have wronged me here, and
that I will not easily forget, nor soon forgive.’

They had reached the bottom of the steps and parted slightly. Malekith
turned and laid a hand upon Aernuis’s shoulder, seemingly in friendship
from where the High King was sat. In reality, the Eataine prince
squirmed under Malekith’s iron grip as the Naggarothi lord’s fingers dug
through his robes, deep into the flesh.

‘I look forward to feeding your carcass to the crows,’ Malekith said
pleasantly. ‘The only way you will regain my favour is to make yourself
utterly indispensable to my cause. Tell me everything you know about
these folk, and how you came to be here, and I may reconsider killing
you.’

Aernuis looked into Malekith’s eyes, hoping to see some hint of mocking
or weakness, but there was none; the Naggarothi’s eyes were as hard as
flint and as utterly devoid of emotion as a shark’s hungry gaze. Looking
away, Aernuis freed himself from Malekith’s painful grip and
straightened the creases in his robe. With a disconcerted look, he
turned on his heel and skulked away, enduring the sneers of the
Naggarothi still stood at the entrance.

Later that night, Malekith supposed, though he could not tell for sure,
Aernuis came to the prince’s chambers. Aernuis’s manner was one of
conciliation and he gave a formal bow as he entered, though its impact
was somewhat lessened by the fact that the tall elf had already been
forced to stoop by passing through the low doorway.

Malekith sat along the length of his short cot with his back against the
wall. He was dressed in a flowing purple robe, his armour piled
carefully upon the floor, for there was no stand tall enough to hold it.
Other items such as his sword and helm were placed neatly on the low
shelves of the small room. In his hands he held the dwarf-made brooch
gifted to him in Karak Kadrin, and after glancing up at his visitor he
returned his gaze to wonder at its workmanship.

‘I fear there has been some misunderstanding between us,’ Aernuis said.
‘I am more than willing to share the spoils that founding a solid
relationship with the dwarfs will bring. I am almost alone here, and
life amongst these folk has led me into bad habits. I would be honoured
to serve in whatever capacity I can, for the benefit of Ulthuan.’

‘Go on,’ Malekith said without looking up.

‘It has taken me many years to build what I have with the dwarfs,’
explained Aernuis. ‘Only these last three years have I spent with the
High King. Before that, I dwelt within Karak Izril, a city as far south
again as you have travelled from Karak Kadrin. When we sailed across the
ocean, we looked to find passage eastwards, but storms blew us onto the
coast south-west of where we now are. Though most of my crew survived
the wreck, the ship could not be saved and we were cast upon this
strange shore with little in the way of supplies, and with no knowledge
of where we had landed.’

‘Sounds dreadful,’ muttered Malekith, still entranced by his brooch.

‘It was,’ said Aernuis, ignoring the prince’s irony. ‘The lands between
the sea and the mountains are infested with orcs, vicious green-skinned
beasts intent on slaughter and destruction.’

‘Yes, I know them,’ said Malekith, still feigning disinterest. ‘My sword
has met more than a few.’

‘Goblins riding upon wolves assailed us, and we were driven ever
eastwards, into the heart of the desolate wilderness that lies south of
here,’ Aernuis continued. ‘We fought as best we could, but their attacks
were constant and gradually our numbers dwindled. For several months we
wandered, ever trying to head towards the mountains, but often finding
our route cut off by orc camps or marauding warbands. There was little
to hunt, and hunger and thirst stalked us as much as the goblins. When
but a handful of my ship’s company were left, the others decided to head
back towards the coast in the hope that some other ship may have
followed our course. I knew this to be folly, for we had been driven
here only by chance, but they would not be dissuaded from their course
of action, so I let them go. Only loyal Sutherai stayed with me.’

‘How heart-warming, I’m sure,’ said Malekith, tossing the brooch onto a
table beside the bed and swinging his feet to the floor so that he faced
the Eataine prince. ‘So tell me, good admiral, what have you been doing
for the last forty years?’

‘Sutherai and I made it to the foothills, travelling at night, hiding in
stream beds and marshes to avoid detection during the day,’ said
Aernuis, and his haunted expression as he recalled those times was a
testament to the fear that he had felt. ‘We came upon a strange
building, and thinking it abandoned, we took shelter. The orcs did not
approach it, and so we made camp there for some time. It was, of course,
a dwarf fort, and six days after we came there, the dwarfs returned. At
first they were going to slay us out of hand, but I expect that so
bedraggled and pitiful we looked, they stayed their axes. Curiosity
saved us, and they took us back to Karak Izril, where we lived for many
years.’

Aernuis looked at Malekith’s unconvinced expression and sighed.

‘I do not expect you to understand our plight,’ Aernuis said. ‘We were
two strangers very far from our own lands. We did not know if there were
other elves within a thousand miles, and even if there were, there was
no way that we could contact them. Even when we had learned a little of
the dwarfen tongue, and they came to trust us more, we could not leave.
Where would we go? Out into the wilderness, boldly striking out for
friends that in all likelihood did not exist? I felt as if I had
stumbled upon all the riches of the world, but had nobody with whom to
share them, nothing on which to spend them.’

‘Riches?’ asked Malekith, dropping his pretence of indifference.

‘You have seen how they decorate their halls, the gold and silver they
wear, the artisanship of their weapons,’ said Aernuis. ‘It is but a
fraction of the wealth of these mountains. Every hold has vast vaults
filled with gems and precious metals, I have seen them. They covet gold
like no other thing, and hoard it as a squirrel keeps nuts for the
winter. Seeing you, I realised that much has changed since I left
Ulthuan, and I think that now we must hold all the varied riches of the
wide world in our hands. If we can but broker trade with the dwarfs, you
and I will become pre-eminent amongst all of the princes.’

‘I am already pre-eminent,’ said Malekith.

‘Your soldiers are perhaps not so sure,’ said Aernuis.

‘What do you mean?’ demanded Malekith, angrily rising to his feet.

‘Sutherai has spoken with many of them, and learned that Bel Shanaar has
grown rich and powerful on the proceeds of his empire,’ Aernuis said.
‘Though your claims here grow by the year, who can say how the fortunes
of Nagarythe fare back on Ulthuan? Yet if you can reach agreement with
the dwarfs, and act as arbiter between their kings and the Phoenix
Throne, it is you who shall hold Bel Shanaar’s fate.’

‘Alandrian should learn to control his tongue,’ Malekith muttered.

‘With me by your side, you have a partner ready and willing to speak to
King Snorri on your behalf,’ Aernius continued. ‘Without me, it will
take you twenty years or more to earn his trust, and in that time many
things can happen. It was by chance that we both met with these folk,
but as our cities grow and more of our people cross the seas, how long
before others encounter them also? If you fear me as a rival, you must
fear time more, for we have an opportunity here to create something that
will seal our places in history, but it will not last forever.’

‘Perhaps I misjudged you,’ said Malekith, and hope filled Aernuis’s
face, but it quickly dissipated when he saw the Naggarothi’s cruel
expression. ‘I thought you a coward, but instead you are merely a
merchant. I am the prince of Nagarythe, a warrior and general, not a
trader to barter deals and haggle with lesser entities.’

‘And how glorious might be the armies of Nagarythe with the wealth of
the mountains in your coffers?’ said Aernuis with a smile. ‘Dwarf-forged
spears in their hands, and dwarf-made arrows in their quivers? You have
seen their buildings, sturdy and strong. Crude in look, but we can learn
their techniques and turn them to our advantage, to create beautiful
palaces in which to pass away our long days, and soaring castles that
will defend our realm for eternity. Much of what they make is rough and
functional, but if guided by an elven hand, think what their mastery of
stone and metal and wood would bring to our people. It is not just trade
that this relationship will herald, but a new era of elven dominion.’

‘I do not think that they will give up their secrets lightly,’ said
Malekith.

‘They will not,’ replied Aernuis. ‘But if they will give them up at all,
they will give them up to us!’

Malekith sat down again, deep in thought. He imagined the legions of
Nagarythe marching upon roads that cut through hills and over bridges
that spanned wide rivers and mountain passes. He had seen the odd
mechanical bows that many of the dwarfs carried, and wondered what his
finest marksmen could do with such weapons.

Only after a while did he remember that Aernuis was still in the room.
He looked up at the prince, who was wracked between expectation and
dread as he looked at Malekith pondering the future.

‘Very well,’ Malekith declared. ‘You have proved yourself useful to me,
and I shall not slay you yet. You may leave me now.’

Aernuis bowed again with as much dignity as he could muster, and then
departed. Malekith picked up the brooch from the table and looked at it
again, tracing a finger over its entwined patterns. With a smile, he
attached it to his robe and stood, calling for Alandrian.
