
SEVEN 

The Road to Chrace

The wind was fresh from the east, bringing scatters of rain onto the
pale wooden decking, casting droplets from mast and sail onto Carathril
as he stood at the rail. He had crossed the Inner Sea many times during
his duties to Bel Shanaar but he had not yet come to terms with the
Phoenix King’s death, and in all of those previous voyages he had never
felt such urgency and such responsibility.

The sky was heavy with autumnal cloud, matching the herald’s dismal
mood. Around him, the sailors adjusted the triangular sails at the
orders of their captain, squeezing every last measure of speed from
their ship. To the bow and stern, and at the mastheads, lookouts kept
watch for ships, fearful that another vessel might be under the sway of
the Naggarothi or the cultists. On the deck were two hundred seasoned
marines; the famed Sea Guard of Carathril’s home city of Lothern.

Ahead and to starboard appeared an isle with shallow shores. Grey haze
hung about its coast, and coloured lights danced in the sky above.
Carathril moved to the port side, not wishing to look upon the Isle of
the Dead. It was on that slip of land that Caledor Dragontamer had cast
the spell of the great vortex, forever trapping himself and his fellow
mages at its heart.

Growing up in Lothern, Carathril had heard all of the sailors’ tales.
Some claimed the mages could be seen as ethereal figures with arms
reaching to the heavens, frozen in time at the moment of their triumph.
It was said that the last syllables of that mighty enchantment were
still carried on the breeze; that Caledor’s final words would come to an
elf while he slept if his ship strayed too close to the shore.

Carathril had no desire to test the truth of the tales and he heard
sailors and Sea Guard whispering prayers to Mannanin, god of the waters,
asking for safe passage and a route clear of the Isle of the Dead.

Due north they sai led after, cutting between the chain of islands that
curved across the Inner Sea. For three more days they carried on without
pause, and saw no more than the occasional sail on the horizon.

They came into view of the Inner Sea’s northern reaches. A
forest-swathed shore marked that boundary, broken by the mouths of many
rivers. Of all the realms of Ulthuan, it was this one that Carathril had
never seen. Avelorn, home of the Everqueen. The thought of it sent a
tremor through Carathril, of excitement and quiet fear. A land of
boundless forest, Avelorn had always been the heart of elven society.
Tor Anroc had been the political capital of Ulthuan, but it was Avelorn
that was the elves’ spiritual centre. There were some philosophers who
claimed the forefathers of every elf had been raised beneath that
endless bower of leaves and branches.

In his years of service to the Phoenix Throne, Carathril had never been
despatched to the court of the Everqueen, and he had never received a
visitor from Avelorn. The Everqueen, Yvraine, daughter of Aenarion and
Astarielle, did not concern herself with temporal affairs. Hers was a
timeless guardianship, of the isle and its people as a whole. Yet
Carathril knew that the Everqueen would be aware of the tumult engulfing
her island; other messengers were on board to visit her court and inform
Yvraine of the decision to elect Imrik.

To one of the broad rivers sailed the ship, entering the waters of
Avelorn as dusk fell. The trees crowded close to the bank on each side,
willows that dipped long fronds into the water. Clouds of bats set out
from their roosts, dark swathes against the setting sun. Things
screeched and howled and roared in the twilight, and Carathril was glad
he was on the ship and not the shore.

The river was broad and easily navigable, so they sailed on through the
night. As the moons rose, the character of the forest changed again. In
the silvery light of Sariour, the trees seemed to dance and whisper in
the wind, their secret messages echoing across the waters as a susurrant
background noise. The river was teeming with life: fish and frogs and
lizards could be seen skimming the placid waters in the patches of
moonlight that broke through the cloud. The call of nighthawks and the
howls of wolves sounded from every direction and Carathril found sleep
impossible.

By dawn, they came to a great bend in the river, turning westwards
towards the peaks of the Annulii that could be just about seen rearing
in the distance over the canopy of trees. In the light of the dawn,
animals came to the waterside to drink. Here and there, the trees opened
up into broad glades where herds of deer grazed and foxes stalked
through the long grass.

Carathril was convinced he saw other movement too, in the gloom beneath
the forest canopy. Not birds or beasts, but the trees themselves seemed
to shift. He knew that Avelorn was alive, and from the oldest tales had
heard of the treemen that protected the forest; it was a different
matter to see such creatures in the shadows, spirits of bark and leaf
that creaked and groaned like trees in a strong wind.

A little after noon, they came to a jetty. It was not made of timber,
but of the massive roots of a tree extending into the river. A company
of armoured warrior-women waited on the shore nearby: the Maiden Guard
of Avelorn. Seeing them, the captain steered the ship towards the
natural wharf and put the ship alongside the twisting roots.

The captain of the Maiden Guard came to the ship, spear in hand and
shield on the other arm, her golden hair falling in waves from beneath
her green-gold helm, her eyes a bright green that pierced Carathril’s
soul. When she spoke, her voice was distant, her eyes unfocussed as if
she looked upon something else. Carathril imagined the sighing of leaves
and the gentle tumble of water over rocks.

‘The whole forest speaks of your coming,’ she said. ‘I am Althinelle,
glade protector and captain of the Maiden Guard. Who is your leader?’

The ship captain waved to Carathril, who hesitantly moved along the rail
to address Althinelle.

‘I am Carathril, of Lothern, lately of Tor Anroc,’ he called down to
her. ‘I have heralds aboard for the Everqueen and am destined upriver
for the mountains of Chrace.’

‘We have hoped that you would come,’ Althinelle replied. ‘Our queen is
most distressed. She feels a darkness swallowing Ulthuan and would know
its cause.’

‘The Phoenix King Bel Shanaar is dead,’ Carathril told her. ‘Prince
Malekith dared the wrath of Asuryan to replace him and was found
wanting. The flames consumed him and the shrine all but toppled.’

‘Grave news,’ said Althinelle. She nodded. ‘Send down your heralds and I
will take them to Queen Yvraine. You may pass on up the river. For what
purpose do you travel to Chrace?’

As the sailors threw rope ladders down to the wharf and the heralds
climbed over the ship’s side, Carathril hesitated to reply; out of
practice rather than suspicion. There could be no hint of the cultists
or Naggarothi in Avelorn; the Maiden Guard would ensure the forests were
kept free of any cytharai taint.

‘Prince Imrik of Caledor is to be found there,’ said Carathril. ‘Many
princes were massacred by Naggarothi at Asuryan’s shrine, and Imrik is
to be named Bel Shanaar’s successor. We must find him and escort him
safely to the Isle of the Flame.’

‘Very well,’ said the Maiden Captain. There was a hint of amusement in
her tone. ‘We shall send word to the companies at the borders of Chrace
to keep watch for your return. The Everqueen will grant safe passage to
her future husband. Isha’s blessings be upon your life.’

‘Please convey my gratitude and regard to the Everqueen,’ said
Carathril.

Althinelle laughed, the sound touching joy into Carathril’s heart.

‘Be assured that Yvraine knows of your gratitude and regard, Carathril
of Lothern, lately of Tor Anroc.’

The Maiden Captain stepped back. Just as he turned away, Carathril saw
something strange; Althinelle’s eyes looked blue not green. He shook his
head and dismissed the idea as an illusion of the strange forest light.
The whole experience left him feeling light-headed and he retired to his
cabin to lie down.

He did not intend to sleep, but since he had rested little since the
massacre at the shrine, his eyelids felt heavy and he passed into a deep
slumber. When he woke, he saw through the cabin window that it was late
evening.

He felt refreshed and strong, and for some reason the cabin was filled
with the smell of wild flowers.

The wind came in howling gusts down the valley, bringing an early touch
of winter from the peaks. Flurries of snow dusted from the ridges and
shoulders of the mountains above and the moons were hidden by a thick
bank of cloud.

Despite the gloom, Elthanir could see perfectly well. He followed the
winding trail with the sure-footedness of a mountain goat, springing
from rock to rock, weaving between the branches of the overhanging
bushes and steering easily past outcrops, his feet upon the edge of the
shelf, a precipice dropping steeply down to his right.

He did not feel the cold, not the ache of limbs from many days travel,
or the hunger that would have gnawed the stomach of an ordinary elf, or
the parched dryness of his throat. Only the burning occupied him; the
fire behind his eyes that pushed him onwards.

The others followed in silence. None of them had spoken since they had
left the palace of Anlec, each consumed by his curse, his inner pain.

As another flurry of wind dusted his cloak and hood, Elthanir stopped at
a turn in the path, where it dropped down sharply towards the valley
floor. He looked north and recognised Anil Arianni and Anul Sethis, twin
peaks that soared above the others, joined by a sharp ridge.

He knew the mountains well, for they marked the edge of Nagarythe. He
stared up at the pass known as the Chracian Gate and knew that in a few
days the burning pain would end.

The party emerged from the edge of the pine forests onto the highest
slopes of Anul Sarian. The snow was light, Imrik’s boots barely leaving
a mark as he forged up the mountainside, his broad-headed hunting spear
over his shoulder. Ahead the trackers had stopped in the shelter of a
cluster of snow-crusted boulders, bows in hand.

‘Looks like we might get lucky today,’ Koradrel said, following behind
Imrik. ‘Perhaps something a bit more challenging than a stag or bear.’

‘With luck,’ replied Imrik, glancing over his shoulder.

Both princes were clad in hunting leathers and fur-lined cloaks, the
hoods pulled up against the cold breeze. Their woollen leggings were
bound with thongs, and knee-high boots protected their feet. Each wore
heavy gloves riveted with rings of iron, and breastplates over their
padded clothing.

‘If nothing comes of this, we shall have to make camp,’ said Koradrel,
pointing to the sun disappearing to the west, his breath steaming the
air.

‘No lodges nearby?’ said Imrik.

‘Half a day’s walk to the south,’ replied Koradrel. ‘There are caves on
the north-eastern slopes, with room for all of us.’

The group consisted of twenty elves in all; the two princes, four guides
and fourteen retainers leading the packhorses carrying the tents and
supplies. All were armed with bows and spears and the huntsmen carried
long axes and wore armour. On one of the sleds was mounted a small bolt
thrower, a smaller cousin to the repeater machines used in battle. The
others were heaped with food, nets, blankets, firewood, spare clothes,
lamps and torches, axes for felling trees and shovels for digging pits,
wire and chains for snares and traps, and bundles of fresh spears and
arrows. In any other kingdom, such a party might look as if they were
ready for battle, but in Chrace they were simply essential supplies for
a hunting trip.

Imrik considered battle safer, and every elf in the group was alert,
watching the cloudy skies, peering into the shadows beneath the pine
trees, eyeing every rock and bush.

Like Caledor, Chrace was a kingdom of mountains. In the Dragon Spine
Mountains, the dragons hunted down any large beast that wandered into
their territory. In the Chracian peaks, it was the elves that had to
keep watch for marauding monsters. The vortex of Ulthuan raged through
these rocky spires, tinging the air with magic, colouring the clouds and
the snow with a glistening half-seen rainbow. The powerful winds of
magic had drawn all manner of strange creatures to these lands. Some
could be reared as mounts if caught young, such as the pegasi, griffons
and hippogryphs. Others were beasts of pure Chaos; the manticores and
hydras, basilisks and chimeras.

For centuries they had made their nests and for centuries the highlight
of the Chracian calendar had been the monster hunts. The Chracians had
honed their beast-slaying skills, mountaincraft and woodmanship to a
high art. Several times during his campaigns in Elthin Arvan, Imrik had
called upon the expertise of his Chracian allies to rid an area of a
troublesome beast.

The prince liked the Chracians as a people, and though they lived at
opposite sides of Ulthuan, there was much in common. Though Chrace
lacked the raw grandeur of Caledor, and had no claim to a great founder
like the Dragontamer, it had its own natural majesty. The people were
sturdy in body and spirit, used to the isolation of winter.

That they were fierce warriors was beyond doubt. Many of the retainers,
like Koradrel, wore the pelts of the famed Chracian white lions. It was
considered a testament to adulthood and prowess for a warrior to hunt
one of the massive cats, and no elf was allowed to wear the fur of a
white lion unless he had slain it with his own hand. Imrik had killed
two such beasts on his hunts, but had refused to wear their cloak of
honour; he had jokingly confessed to Koradrel on one hunt that he feared
such a thing would confuse the dragons and he would get eaten as prey on
returning to Caledor. In truth, he did not feel the right to bear such a
badge of strength upon his shoulders. He was just a visitor in these
lands; a genuine Chracian hunter lived and breathed these mountains
every day.

They reached the position of the scouts and took shelter amongst the
rocks. Glad to be out of the wind, Imrik pulled down his hood, took off
the band holding back his hair and ran his fingers over his head.

‘You see something?’ he asked the closest guide, an elf called Anachius.

The guide nodded and pointed along the slope. Imrik saw the darkness of
a cave mouth, and the ground in front was trampled and free of snow.

‘A lair,’ said Imrik with a smile. He tied back his hair and turned to
Koradrel. ‘What is in there?’

‘Let us go and find out,’ replied the Chracian, taking his spear from
where he had leant it against a rock.

The group cautiously moved out from the boulders, making barely a sound
and leaving only the faintest marks in the snow. Imrik took his spear in
both hands, breathing shallowly, eyes intent on the cave ahead. Anachius
moved in front of the group with another guide, racing swiftly over the
rough ground, their lion-pelt cloaks tied tight around their bodies.

The hunters stopped about a bow’s shot from the cave entrance while the
guides continued ahead. The two elves circled away from the cave, moving
through a scattering of rocks. They spent some time examining the
ground, pointing at tracks. There followed a brief conversation and then
the other guide headed back towards the group while Anachius edged
cautiously towards the cave.

‘There is definitely a creature inside, or nearby,’ said the guide when
he had returned. ‘There are no feathers that we can see, and the claw
marks show that it is a large beast. We found tufts of coarse fur on the
rocks, not shed scales, and no sign of burning. The smell of carrion
comes from the cave.’

‘So not a griffon or hydra,’ said Koradrel.

‘Not a chimera, either,’ added Imrik. ‘Such would not leave meat
uneaten.’

‘True enough,’ agreed the guide.

‘So what have we here?’ asked Koradrel.

The question was answered by a shout from Anachius.

‘Manticore!’ the guide cried out, sprinting from the cave mouth.

The beast exploded from the cave behind him, the mountainside
reverberating with a feral roar. The monster was in rough shape the same
as a massive lion, its pelt dark brown and marked with deep orange
patches. Two wings like those of an immense bat were curled upon its
back and claws like white scimitars scraped across rock as it skidded
out onto the slope. Its tail was segmented like a scorpion’s, arching
over its wings, tipped with a barb as long as a spear. Most frightening
was its face; feline but with disturbingly elf-like features, dark
against a huge mane of bright red hair.

The manticore bellowed again as the elves readied their weapons. Some
raced towards Anachius, shouting encouragement. The monster pounced,
wings opening, easily catching up with the forlorn guide.

Anachius turned at the last moment, warned by a cry from Koradrel. He
raised his spear as the manticore landed, its rune-carved tip scoring a
wound across the creature’s cheek. A massive paw swiped away the weapon
and sent Anachius crashing to the ground, his arm flopping uselessly.

In a heartbeat the manticore was upon the guide, jaws closing about his
torso, almost shearing the unfortunate elf in half.

‘Fight or run?’ said Imrik.

‘Fight!’ replied Koradrel. ‘A manticore will chase us all of the way
back to Tor Achare. Take cover in the rocks!’

Imrik tore his gaze from the vision of the manticore tearing Anachius
limb from limb, showering the white ground with blood, organs and
splinters of bone, a bass growling echoing after the hunters as they
retreated back to the boulders.

Glancing over his shoulder as he ran, Imrik saw that the monster did not
feed, but simply ripped apart the guide with wild rage, shaking body
parts in its mouth before tossing them away. It continued to stamp and
slash with its claws, turning flesh to red ribbons.

Reaching the rocks, Imrik came to a halt beside Koradrel. Looking down
the slope, he saw all but two of the other hunters racing towards them
with weapons ready. The other two had stopped the horse train and were
ready­ing the bolt thrower on its sled.

‘They are fearsome but mindlessly aggressive,’ said Koradrel. ‘We must
lure it into view of the bolt thrower. Once we have grounded the beast,
we attack as a group. Spears and axes, arrows will do little harm.’

Imrik nodded and adjusted his grip on the spear, one shoulder against a
boulder. The manticore had finished its frenzy of destruction and lifted
its head, sniffing, head turning left and right, pointed ears swivelling
to detect any noise. It let loose another roar and bounded into the air.
The manticore’s flapping had none of the grace of a dragon’s flight, but
it powered skywards at speed, scanning the ground for more prey.

Torches had been lit by some of the guides and they ventured from the
rocks with the flaming brands in hand, waving to attract the beast’s
attention and lure it away from the caravan.

The manticore dropped from the skies, forelegs outstretched. The
torchbearers flung away their brands and sprinted back to the rocks, the
manticore bearing down upon them like a bolt of pure fury.

The elves reached the boulders as the manticore crashed into the ground,
snarling and swiping. Imrik could feel the heat of its breath, tainted
with the stench of rotted flesh and fresh blood.

The manticore saw him and lunged. Imrik hurled himself behind a boulder
a heartbeat before the monster’s claws slashed across the rock, sending
chips of stone into the air. It growled constantly, and padded to the
right, snorting and sniffing. Koradrel appeared to the creature’s right
and hurled his spear, the weapon punching into the creature’s ribs just
behind its shoulder. It gave a howl of anger and spun, tail lashing but
too slow to catch the swiftly retreating Chracian.

Bunching powerful muscles, the beast looked as though it was about to
take to the sky again. One of the hunters emerged from the shadow of the
rocks with an axe in hand, bellowing a challenge. The manticore twisted
and leapt for the kill, but the hunter rolled beneath its outstretched
claws and raked the edge of his axe across its gut. Blood streamed onto
the snow.

The hunter surged to his feet and dashed for the rocks, but unlike
Koradrel he was too close. The manticore’s sting flashed down, punching
into the elf’s back, the tip of the barb erupting from the hunter’s
shoulder. He flopped to the ground, convulsing madly as the sting was
ripped free, blood and froth erupting from his mouth.

Moving more sluggishly from its wounds, the manticore circled around the
boulders, moving up the slope, tail lashing, wings flexing. Imrik looked
into its eyes and saw yellow orbs of hatred. The prince wondered what
could spawn a beast of such rage.

Bounding forwards two steps, the manticore leapt, landing with
surprising agility atop the largest boulder. It peered down into the
rocks as the elves scattered, one claw catching Koradrel on the arm as
he raced past, pitching him face-first to the ground.

Imrik acted out of instinct, bounding over a rock with spear in hand.
The movement diverted the manticore away from the fallen prince and
Imrik ducked as the sting whipped towards him, clattering against a rock
to leave a trail of thick venom. Imrik stood over Koradrel and thrust
upwards with his spear. The blow was hasty and only scored a ragged mark
across the manticore’s shoulder. In reply, a paw smashed into Imrik’s
chest, throwing him backwards. His breastplate was buckled, two marks
raked across it, but it had saved him from instant evisceration.

Other hunters poured into the fight, swinging long axes and jabbing with
spears. The manticore leapt over their heads to another perch, smashing
an elf from his feet with its tail as it landed. The Chracians were
relentless as Imrik recovered his breath, their weapons forcing the
monster to rear up with a roar.

Imrik heard a distant snap and a moment later the manticore’s throat
erupted in a shower of blood, a bolt jutting from the side of its neck.
Flopping sideways, it tumbled down the rock, limbs flailing, tail
slashing left and right. A well-placed axe blow severed the sting, blood
and poison gushing from the wound.

Still the beast would not be slain. It rolled to its feet, wings
unfurling, howling madly. Not wanting the manticore to escape, Koradrel
rejoined his warriors, leaping atop the monster’s back to drive his
spear into its spine. The beast fell again, Koradrel jumping lightly to
the ground as the manticore slammed into the rocks. An incautious elf
lost a leg to a vicious sweep as the creature lashed out in its death
throes.

Contented that it would die without further action, Koradrel called his
hunters away a safe distance. Imrik joined his cousin and the two leaned
on each other, breathing heavily. The rush of battle filled the
Caledorian prince as he looked at the dying monster. Glancing down, he
realised how close he had been to sharing its fate; relief combined with
battle-lust to send a surge of energy through him. Imrik caught
Koradrel’s eye and saw the glint there. They both laughed and embraced.

Imrik mastered himself after a while and looked at the dead beast with
raised eyebrows.

‘So that’s a manticore,’ he said.

Since he had been made a herald by Bel Shanaar, Carathril had crossed
the Annulii Mountains many times, yet it never ceased to have an effect
on him. Crossing from Avelorn into Chrace, over some of the highest
passes in the circle of peaks, he felt the vortex more powerfully than
ever before. The magic felt like it tugged at his hair, seeped through
the pores of his skin, set his teeth on edge. The clouds that covered
the mountains were tinged with purple and red and green, and through
rare breaks strange rainbows shimmered against the sunlight, the colours
of their curved arcs distorted by the magical field.

The reputation of Chrace as a home for many monstrous dangers was well
known and Carathril’s company of Sea Guard were constantly alert for
attack. Winter was fast approaching these northern climes, and on the
third day after leaving the river, the group awoke to find the ground
and their tents covered with a light dusting of snow. Carathril had been
to Chrace before and was well prepared with a fur-lined cloak and hood,
and gloves of soft leather. The Sea Guard had also brought winter
­clothing, and swathed against the cold wind and flurries of icy sleet,
the elves forged on into Chrace.

It was not for monsters alone that the Sea Guard were watchful. The
route of the company took them along Phoenix Pass, which crossed the
Annulii into Nagarythe. Even keeping to the highlands as much as
possible, there was every chance they would run into Naggarothi warriors
patrolling the border.

Though the increasingly bitter weather made it more uncomfortable,
Carathril decided that they should march by night and seek shelter by
day, the better to avoid the Naggarothi. Even then he was constantly
nagged by the feeling of being watched; these lands were the traditional
haunt of the raven heralds. Carathril had met some of their order, and
knew that if they wished to remain unseen, not even the keen eyes of the
Sea Guard would spot them.

He was eager to press on and cross back into Chrace as quickly as
possible, fearful that the raven heralds would have spied the company as
soon as they left Phoenix Pass. Even now, riders could be speeding to
Anlec, bearing the news. Such was the situation following the massacre
at the shrine, Carathril would expect the Naggarothi to react violently
to any trespass on their lands.

For three nights they marched, often following no track at all through
the bleak hills of eastern Nagarythe, keeping their bearing by snatched
glimpses of moon and stars. For three days they made camp in hollows and
caves, eating cold food to avoid lighting fires, wrapped in blankets to
keep the wintry air at bay.

On the fourth morning, Carathril did not call the company to a halt, but
instead insisted that they pushed on through the day as well. They
crossed an icy river that cascaded down from the Annulii and so passed
into Chrace. Out in the wilderness they had no hope for relief or
reinforcement, and turned eastwards away from Nagarythe as soon as the
terrain allowed.

Every now and then Carathril glanced over his shoulder as he marched,
expecting to see a feather-cloaked rider on a distant hill or an army of
Naggarothi in pursuit. Each time the horizon was bare of foe, just the
grey cold skies of northern Ulthuan.

They made camp that night in the lee of a great shoulder of rock and
dared to light fires again to melt snow and cook a more wholesome meal.
Neaderin, the captain of the Sea Guard, joined Carathril inside his tent
as the wind plucked at canvas and howled across the rocks.

‘We have reached Chrace, but where now do we search for Imrik?’ asked
the captain.

Carathril was at a loss for an answer for the moment. The Caledorian
prince had deliberately left no word of where he could be found, and all
of Thyriol’s magic had been unable to locate Imrik within the mystical
whorl of the vortex.

‘His cousin Koradrel lives in the capital, Tor Achare,’ Carathril said
after some thought. ‘Morai Heg might favour us and we find Imrik there,
returned from his hunt. If not, Koradrel’s household will surely know
where their master has gone.’

‘So we head directly east, to Tor Achare?’ said Neaderin. ‘Or do we
journey around the mountains and come at the city from the north?’

It was a difficult decision. Carathril felt the need for urgency, but
the shortest path would be the wrong one if they went astray in the
mountains or some ill fate befell them. Against this, he measured the
extra time it would take to march around the mountains and negotiate the
deep forests north of Tor Achare. It was a more certain route but, even
allowing for a few days’ delay crossing the mountains, would take nearly
twice as long.

‘We shall take the longer route,’ said the herald. ‘Though the worst of
winter is not yet here, the mountains are not for the inexperienced. And
if Imrik hunts in the mountains, we will need directions to locate him.’

‘We are Sea Guard, not mountaineers,’ said Neaderin. ‘This could have
been avoided. We should have sailed through the Lothern Gate and around
Ulthuan to the northern coast of Chrace.’

‘With Prince Haradrin dead, Lothern will be awash with anarchy and
suspicion,’ said Carathril. ‘I was not certain that the sea gates would
be opened to us, and even if they were, travel through the port risked
many other distractions and delays. I am sorry, but it had to be this
way.’

Neaderin sighed and departed, leaving Carathril feeling cold and gloomy.
The chill drove his pessimistic mood as much as the task ahead. Even in
winter, Eataine was as warm as a Chracian summer and he missed the sun
upon the white houses of Lothern and the glittering waters of the port.
There would be no easy way to find Imrik, but Carathril contented
himself with the thought that although the need to find the prince was
pressing, the Naggarothi would not be able to make any move before the
spring. Even if they had some malicious intent for the next Phoenix
King, the task of finding him would be just as difficult for them; in
fact it would be harder for they would have no allies in Chrace to help
them.

Slightly eased by this, Carathril tried to sleep, ignoring the numb of
cold in his fingers and toes.

The crackle of burning logs almost drowned out the whimpers of the
woodcutter and his family. His tear-streaked face was lit by the flames
of the burning lodge, mingling with the blood seeping from the fine cut
upon his brow. Blinking to clear his eyes, the Chracian looked up at
Elthanir, his lips bloodied, teeth broken.

‘I shall tell you nothing,’ the woodcutter managed to say, a string of
blood-flecked saliva drooling from the corner of his ravaged mouth.

Elthanir shook his head. He knew he was close. The pain was now just
soreness at the back of his head, an ember of the fire that had
previously raged behind his eyes. The woodcutter gasped as Elthanir
ripped his dagger out of the elf’s ribs.

‘Imrik,’ Elthanir snarled, just about able to concentrate on the word
through the fog of pain. ‘Where?’

He used the blade on the hunter’s arms, cutting where the flesh was most
sensitive. It reminded Elthanir of the rituals in the temple of Khaine,
though in that gore-soaked shrine there was no point in confession.

The woodcutter grimaced and said nothing, trembling violently. Elthanir
stopped his torture, fearing that his victim would pass out or perhaps
even die. He looked over his shoulder at the others and nodded. One of
them stepped forwards, dragging a young male elf, no more than fifteen
years old. In his other hand, he held a knife with a blade heated in the
flames of the cabin, oblivious to the burning of his own flesh. The air
wavered with heat as he forced open the boy’s mouth and held the blade
close.

Behind him, the hunter’s wife wailed and lurched for her child, but was
driven back by a knee to the gut. Her daughter, even younger than the
son, struggled in the arms of another assassin, awash with tears.

Elthanir grabbed the woodcutter by his long hair and twisted his head to
look at his son. The Chracian sobbed.

‘Imrik. Where?’ the assassin asked again.

Something woke Carathril. He lay with his eyes closed, feeling a
presence close at hand. He could hear nothing except for the wind and
the slap of canvas and twang of rope. It was the quiet that disturbed
him, as if there was an absence of a sound he expected to hear.

He opened his eyes and saw something darker in the tent with him. Before
he could open his mouth to shout, a black-gloved hand clamped over his
mouth. A hooded face leaned over him and whispered in his ear, the words
a barely heard sigh.

‘Do not struggle and do not shout.’

The voice sounded familiar but Carathril could not place it. He felt
something lightly brushing his face and realised it was the touch of
feathers from the elf’s hood. A raven herald!

‘You are in no danger, I am here to warn you,’ said the shadowy elf. A
shuttered lantern revealed a glimmer of red light. The intruder pulled
back his hood and revealed emerald-like eyes and jet-black hair.
Carathril placed the voice immediately on seeing the herald’s face. It
was Elthyrior, who had ridden with Malekith and Carathril in the assault
on the fortress of Ealith twenty years before.

‘Will you remain silent?’ said the raven herald. Carathril nodded,
realising that had Elthyrior wished to kill him, he would have done so
already. The raven herald lifted his hand away and straightened. ‘Good.
I am pleased that you trust me.’

‘I would not say that,’ said Carathril.

Elthyrior smiled and sat cross-legged beside Carathril’s bed roll. His
eyes were sparks of green in the dim light.

‘That is probably the wisest position to take,’ he said. ‘The raven
­heralds are divided; some for Morathi, some against. I have news for
you, but first you must tell me what brings the herald of the Phoenix
King into the mountains of Chrace.’

‘I might ask the same of a Naggarothi herald,’ replied Carathril,
sitting up, pulling his blanket to his chest to keep warm. He was
disturbed to notice that while his own breath came in little wisps of
vapour, there was nothing from the raven herald when he spoke.

‘Morai Heg has guided me here, as she guides me to all places of
importance,’ said Elthyrior. ‘Know that I have heard rumour of what
happened in the Shrine of Asuryan and Tor Anroc. I believe that you know
Alith Anar?’

‘We have met,’ said Carathril. The exiled Naggarothi prince had come to
him for help in asking sanctuary of the Phoenix King.

‘Alith still lives and has returned to his family, and so starts upon a
path that will lead him into the darkest places,’ said Elthyrior. ‘I
know of the death of Bel Shanaar, and of a great many princes slain at
the Isle of the Flame, but I do not know the cause. Morathi has left Tor
Anroc and returned to Anlec with the body of Malekith. I see and know
many things, but still I do not know what brings the herald of the dead
Phoenix King to Chrace with a bodyguard of Lothern soldiers.’

‘Why should I tell you?’ said Carathril. That Elthyrior knew so much was
disturbing and Carathril wondered if he was being kept alive just to
divulge the purpose of his mission.

Elthyrior must have read something of Carathril’s thoughts in his
expression. He took a knife from his belt, wrapped Carathril’s fingers
around the hilt and pulled the blade to his throat.

‘Even a raven herald can be killed,’ said Elthyrior. ‘The moment you
suspect me of falsehood or violence, you can end my life with a simple
slash. I shall relieve you of further worry by telling you what I guess
to be the situation, and you can simply answer me if what I believe is
true or false.’

Carathril thought about this and could see nothing but sincerity in the
raven herald’s eyes.

‘Go on,’ said Carathril.

‘You seek Prince Imrik of Caledor,’ said Elthyrior. He smiled. ‘I see
from your face that this is true. The prince passed this way in the
autumn to go hunting with his cousin, Koradrel. Now a herald of the
Phoenix King marches north in haste with a body of soldiers. It is not
difficult to link the two facts.’

‘Why have you sneaked into my tent?’ said Carathril. ‘I would trust you
more had you approached openly and in daylight.’

‘I cannot risk discovery,’ said Elthyrior. ‘Treachery is the greatest
weapon the Naggarothi have in their arsenal at the moment. Can you vouch
for all of your soldiers? Are you certain that none of them are
connected to the cytharai cults?’

Carathril admitted to himself that he did not have such confidence, but
would not say as such to the raven herald. The Sea Guard were loyal to
Eataine, and he had come to the conclusion that even if one or two had
been corrupted, there was little they could do whilst surrounded by
enemies.

‘I can tell that you understand me,’ said Elthyrior. ‘It is with
betrayal and suspicion that Morathi and her followers strike their
deadliest blows, and we would be foolish to trust anyone but ourselves
in these times.’

‘You are right,’ Carathril said with a nod. ‘I am seeking Imrik of
Caledor. A few princes survived the massacre and seek to choose a new
Phoenix King to succeed Bel Shanaar.’

‘Imrik is a good choice,’ said Elthyrior.

‘I have not said that Imrik has been chosen,’ said Carathril.

‘No, but that would explain why seven assassins seek him not more than a
day from here,’ replied the raven herald.

‘What?’ Carathril almost cut Elthyrior in his moment of shock. He pulled
the dagger back from the other elf’s throat. ‘What assassins?’

‘Khainite, the deadliest kind,’ said Elthyrior. ‘I have followed them
for the last five days, since I came across their trail. If you turn
east, you will be following in their footsteps. Move swiftly, I fear
they already know where to find Imrik.’

‘We have to leave at once!’ Carathril threw aside his blanket and got to
his feet.

‘Please wait until dawn,’ said Elthyrior. ‘It is not far off. And keep
my appearance here a secret.’

‘I will,’ said Carathril. ‘Before you leave, can you tell me what
happens in Nagarythe? What does Morathi plan? Any news you have would be
invaluable.’

‘Not all of Nagarythe is under Morathi’s control,’ said the raven
herald. ‘The House of Anar resists her. You travelled through their
lands on leaving Phoenix Pass, though you did not know it. They will
hold back Morathi as long as they can, but they cannot hold forever.
Already I fear the cults control Tor Anroc, from what Alith learnt
before he fled. It would not be safe for you to travel there, nor any
herald of the other princes. The first blows come spring are likely to
fall upon Ellyrion and Chrace.’

‘And would you have kept this information to yourself had our paths not
crossed?’ said Carathril, wondering just how much Elthyrior knew about
the events that were unfolding.

‘It is because I bear this news that our paths have crossed,’ the raven
herald replied, which did not allay Carathril’s suspicions but he
decided not to press the matter.

‘Which way must we head to catch the assassins?’ he asked instead.

‘Due east at dawn for half a day,’ replied Elthyrior, standing up. He
dipped his head in a nod of respect. ‘I fear from there the assassins’
path will be all too clear.’

‘You will follow them also?’

‘No,’ replied the raven herald with a shake of his head. ‘I am already
out of Nagarythe and the situation changes quickly. Now that Morai Heg
has sent you to me, I will return and watch Anlec for the next move of
Morathi.’

‘Thank you for coming to me,’ said Carathril.

The gloom of the lamp disappeared, leaving the tent in darkness.
Carathril heard not a rustle of feather nor the flap of the door, but
knew within a heartbeat that the raven herald had gone. He waited for a
while, collecting his thoughts, which had been sent into a whirl by
Elthyrior. When he was certain the raven herald was away from the camp,
he lit a lamp, pulled on his breastplate, vambraces and sword belt.

Leaving the tent, he saw that the sentries around the camp had not
moved, and the glow of the fires illuminated the mountainside for some
distance. Carathril walked over to the closest picket.

‘Anything strange?’ asked the herald.

‘Nothing,’ the sentry replied. ‘Not even the birds have disturbed us.’

Shaking his head at the mysterious ways of the raven heralds, Carathril
moved to one of the fires where he sat until the first glow of dawn
appeared in the east. He sent one of the Sea Guard to fetch Neaderin.

‘It’s too cold for such an early start,’ said the captain as he warmed
himself by the fire. ‘What could be so urgent?’

Carathril had wondered how he would explain his change of mind without
mentioning Elthyrior. He did not want to lie to Neaderin, but nor could
he reveal the raven herald’s visit.

‘I think that we shall take too long if we go around the mountains,’
said Carathril. ‘Imrik must be crowned Phoenix King as soon as possible,
before the Naggarothi respond to events at the Isle of the Flame. With
winter coming, it would be better if Imrik left Chrace sooner rather
than later. We will head directly east.’

Neaderin gave Carathril a hard look, displeased with this news. The
­herald had expected some resistance and decided that he was in no mood
for a debate.

‘I am the appointed commander of the expedition, and I have made my
decision,’ he said, standing up. ‘I want the company breakfasted and
camp broken now. If there is anything you need me for, I shall be making
my preparations to leave.’

With that, Carathril turned and left the astonished Sea Guard captain
and walked back to his tent, trying not to hurry.
