
four 

Anointed in Battle

The following morning heralded an inauspicious start. The sky was filled
with grey, and light rain dampened the mood of the Naggarothi camp. The
ground underfoot was boggy, broken by glistening rocks and deeper
patches of marshland. In the haze, nothing could be seen of the
mountains to the east and the wilderness was swathed in a melancholy
gloom.

Scouts had returned during the night, confirming a large orc encampment
to the south-east, made of rough hide tents and little else. It was hard
to estimate enemy numbers, but the scouts agreed it was between ten and
fifteen thousand – perhaps half a dozen tribes or more forced together
by the advances of the elves and dwarfs. There was little hope that the
battle would be anything of remark; a small, dispirited enemy army and
the mediocre weather would provide little sport or spectacle for the
battle-hungry Naggarothi.

Their calls dulled by the rain, the clarions of the Naggarothi summoned
the host to arms. In lines of silver, black and purple, the elves
mustered. Spear companies formed up, flanked by regiments of bowmen, and
warriors armed with repeating crossbows fashioned by the dwarfs.
Bolt-thrower crews dismantled their machines where they had been set to
guard the camp, and trudged into place behind the main lines. Prince
Malriad, commander of the army, mounted his silver-mailed charger and
took his position at the head of the knights of Athel Toralien, their
pennants hanging limply from their lances.

The sun broke briefly through the grey, glistening from moisture-dappled
mail and the tips of spears and arrows. The dazzling effect was fleeting
as the clouds thickened and the rain grew in strength. The braziers
around the camp hissed, the canvas of the tents flapped and cracked; the
warriors of Nagarythe stood in miserable quiet, all eagerness quelled by
the filthy weather.

Riders were sent south, to spy upon the orcs and goblins. In the wake of
the scouts, Malriad signalled the advance and the trumpets sounded the
order to form a column. Hellebron and Lirieth took their place, flanking
the standard of their company, long shields upon their left arms,
leaf-headed spears in their right hands, swords and knives at their
hips. They gave each other a knowing glance from beneath the brows of
their silver helms.

‘It will be as we decided?’ said Lirieth.

‘It will,’ replied Hellebron.

‘What are you two whispering?’ asked Nhalek, the standard-bearer.

‘Khaine’s business,’ hissed Hellebron. ‘Mind your own.’

The company set off at a steady march, third in the column; the knights
formed the vanguard, with a regiment of crossbows behind. Another four
thousand Naggarothi followed, a winding snake with a spine of banners
and silver spearpoints. There were no roads and the Naggarothi tramped
through the long grass; the hems of their robes were soon soaking wet,
boots slicked with mud.

Hellebron ignored the slapping of wet material against her legs and
gripped her spearshaft tightly, hiding her excitement. If any day needed
the spark of bloody spectacle, it was today.

It was mid-morning, as grey and lifeless as dawn, when the scouts
returned with news that the orcs were leaving their encampment and
moving westwards towards the coast. Bands of wolf-riding goblins prowled
the wilderness, but they were incompetent pickets and the scouts had
returned unseen. The greenskins were unaware of the army bearing down
upon them.

The army was heartened by the news as it rippled through the ranks.
Prince Malriad gave the order to increase the pace of the advance. The
Naggarothi broke into a swift jog, the elves covering the ground with
loping, easy strides, effortlessly negotiating the knots of bushes and
undulations ­scattered across their path. The harnesses of the knights’
steeds jingled along with the knee-length mail coats of the infantry.

The rain stopped just before midday, though the sky was still overcast.
The wind picked up the closer the host came to the coast, a westerly
wind finally catching the flags and pennons, snapping them from their
shafts while it tousled crests of blue and red and purple and black from
the helmets of the elves.

The air was tinged with salt. Hellebron licked her lips, remembering the
taste of blood. The ground was firmer underfoot, the mire of the
wastelands giving way to rockier terrain. She saw the scouts galloping
back from the south-west and it was not long before the clarions were
ringing with the signal to break column and form the line for attack.

As the Naggarothi host spread to the north and south, Hellebron caught
her first glimpse of the greenskin horde. The ground rose ahead and a
sea of orcs and goblins thronged the slope. They clustered beneath crude
standards made of skulls and bones. The largest orcs bustled through the
horde, shouting and punching to establish their dominance.

Small goblins mounted on the backs of grey-furred wolves waited at the
edge of the army, peering at the approaching elves from beneath
fur-brimmed helms, their small fists nervously gripping the bent shafts
of stone-tipped spears. More of the smallest greenskins were bullied
into position at the front of the greenskin army, a ragtag mob wielding
daggers, short swords, wooden clubs and round shields.

A change in the breeze brought the stench of the greenskins wafting over
the elves. It was a wet mixture of dung, rotting offal and mulch, like
the smell of an animal’s body left to the worms beneath a thick forest
canopy. Hellebron barely reacted; she had drunk the blood of a dozen
orcs and goblins and was all but immune to the disgusting taste. Around
her, others were not so lucky; there were murmurs of distaste and
snarled insults were spat at the filthy enemy.

At the heart of the opposing army several dozen burly orcs sat on the
backs of immense boars. Their mounts were clad in scraps of spiked
armour, jutting tusks sheathed with metal. The orcs wore crude jerkins
of untanned hide, their green skin pocked with scars and marked with
tattoos and warpaint. Angry red eyes glared at the elves; crude swords
and brutal cleavers waved in defiance.

‘Look, trolls!’ Nhalek pointed to the south.

More than a dozen of the huge creatures ambled down the slope behind a
mob of goblins. Each troll was thrice the height of an elf – five times
that of a goblin – with a pot belly, short legs and gangling arms. Their
skin was a deep greenish-blue, heads flat, ears long and tattered like a
ragged parody of the elves’. The trolls wore scraps of cloth and random
pieces of toughened leather, but their skin was harder than any armour
the orcs could make. Clawed hands held up splintered tree-limbs and
clubs made of bone studded with rivets.

At the rear of the orc army, a train of goblins was hauling a war
machine into position. It was a laughably crude attempt at duplicating
the catapults of the dwarfs. A ramshackle construction of red-daubed
wood and splitting ropes, the stone-thrower looked as likely to fall to
pieces as hurl a boulder. Under the lash of an orc overseer, the goblins
hammered spikes into the ground to secure the engine, while others
slowly winched down the throwing arm and yet more gathered together what
rocks they could find for ammunition.

Hellebron caught a whisper travelling along the elf line from the south.
A ripple of discontent swept through the ranks until it reached
Hellebron’s company. The rumour was that the scouts had spotted a wyvern
the night before, but today the huge creature was nowhere to be seen.
Hellebron looked up and scoured the clouds for a sign of the half-dragon
but saw nothing. Others were looking skywards too, uncomfortable at the
thought of a wyvern dropping upon them unseen.

Not for the first time, Hellebron noticed how calm the army was before
battle. While the orcs bustled and massed in anarchic fashion, the quiet
ranks of elves waited patiently for the orders of their commander.
Speartips made straight lines of silver, and shields created an
unbreakable wall of black and red. The musicians sounded the commands,
short blasts that readjusted the line as the orc army took shape, the
regiments marching without haste into their new positions.

It was the calm before the storm, the cold hearth before the fire is
lit.

For a moment Hellebron wondered what the greenskins were thinking,
looking down the hill at the silent lines of warriors. She dismissed the
thought; orcs and goblins were stupid creatures, incapable of
acknowledging the majesty of the vision before them. They were equally
incapable of knowing when they stared defeat in the face. Time and again
the Naggarothi hosts had slain their armies and burned their barbaric
villages, but still the greenskins tried to fight.

Violence was the only language they understood. They had to be made to
understand: these lands belonged to the elves.

Drums rumbled through the orc and goblin horde. At first the beat was
scattered, a noise without rhythm or purpose. Slowly the drums came
together, banging out a slow beat which was picked up by the orcs with
weapons on shields and stamping feet. Crude horns took up the call,
brash and tuneless. The orcs added their voices, defying the elves with
deep bellows while the screeches of the goblins cut across the bass
chanting.

The beat gradually sped up, the chanting grew louder, the clamour
washing down the hill in a vain attempt to intimidate the Naggarothi.

Prince Malriad broke from his knights, followed by the bearer of his
personal standard. The two riders galloped along the line and took up a
position facing the elf army. Malriad drew his sword, his black steed
stamping and swaying.

‘We can do better than that!’ cried the prince.

‘For Aenarion!’ the elves called out in a single voice, bringing up
spears and lances with a crash that momentarily eclipsed the banging and
ranting of the greenskins.

‘For Prince Malekith!’

The thousands of warriors took a step, presenting their shields and
spearpoints towards the orcs, the thud of feet shaking the ground.

‘For Nagarythe!’

This last was a deafening roar, a challenge cried from the throat of
every Naggarothi.

Not to be outdone, the orcs increased their clamour, howling and
shouting in their guttural language, no doubt hurling insults and making
empty boasts. Their leaders, huge creatures taller and broader than the
elves, stomped up and down in front of their subordinates, baring their
long fangs and snarling.

Perhaps overcome by fear or excitement, the crew of the stone-thrower
unleashed their war engine. Its arm snapped forwards. A cloud of
fist-sized rocks arced into the air. Thousands of eyes from both armies
followed their path.

With an explosion of mud, the stones fell to the ground at least a
hundred paces short of the elven line. The wind carried Naggarothi
laughter up to the orcs, infuriating them even more. The most unruly
mobs headed down the slope, lumbering towards the elven line. Fearing to
be left behind, other warbands hurried after until the whole greenskin
army was on the move, pouring haphazardly down the slope.

With a flourish of his blade, Malriad rode back to his knights. The slap
of ropes announced the firing of the bolt-throwers. Spears sped across
the narrowing gap as dark blurs. Where they hit, orcs were flung back
into the ranks following, spitted by the barbed shafts.

Hellebron caught Lirieth’s eye and the two sisters nodded to each other.
The battle was about to begin in earnest and their opportunity would
soon be lost.

The two sisters broke from the front rank of the company and walked
purposefully towards the onrushing greenskins. Lirieth brought out a
phial of deep red liquid and took a mouthful before passing it to
Hellebron. She swallowed the rest of the drug-laced blood and tossed
aside the crystal bottle. The ireleaf and venomblossom worked
immediately, sending a thrill of energy through her. Her pulse raced and
her breath came in gasps as the narcotic potion coursed through her
system.

The Daughters of Murder cast aside their shields and spears as an
astounded whispering gripped the Naggarothi army. They shed their mail
coats and tossed away their helmets. Buckling their weapon belts around
their semi-naked bodies, the sisters drew their swords and daggers and
turned to face their comrades.

‘We need no altar to make sacrifice to Khaine,’ Lirieth called out.
‘This battlefield shall be our temple. Our war cries shall be our
litany. To slay is to pray!’

‘You call us the Daughters of Murder,’ shouted Hellebron. ‘Today we
offer our blood and spirit to Khaine and dedicate ourselves to the Lord
of Death alone. We shall be the Brides of Khaine.’

There were laughs and a few disparaging remarks from the incredulous
Naggarothi. Hellebron glared at the army, bared her teeth and snarled.

‘Let there be no doubt that we are Khaine’s chosen,’ said Lirieth. ‘We
will not shelter behind shields or clad ourselves in armour, for if
Khaine desires our blood, He is free to take it! Our blades shall be our
defence, as Khaine teaches us. Kill and not be killed, that is the truth
of Khaine.’

A lone figure broke from the lines and hurried towards the pair. It was
Lethruis, swathed in a bloodstained robe. His face was twisted with rage
as he bore down on the two sisters.

‘This is a disgrace!’ he snarled. ‘Cease this disrespect immediately.’

‘It is you who are the disgrace!’ shouted Hellebron.

Lirieth sheathed her weapons and seized Lethruis. The priest struggled
but Lirieth’s grip was like iron as she forced him to his knees in the
mud. Hellebron sprang forwards, her knife stopping a hair’s breadth from
Lethruis’s throat. The priest fell still, terrified eyes fixed on
Hellebron. The other acolytes ran from the army, crying out in dismay.

‘Come no closer!’ warned Hellebron.

‘Who here would risk the displeasure of Khaine?’ Lirieth cried out. ‘Who
amongst the Naggarothi would turn their back on He who blessed Aenarion
and has laid the gift of death into our hands?’

‘What are you doing?’ The demand came from Prince Malriad. The commander
rode up to the group and swung down from his horse, one hand moving to
the hilt of his sword. ‘It is you who dare Khaine’s wrath by laying
hands on His priest.’

‘He is no true adept of Khaine.’ Hellebron poured all her scorn into
every word. She raised her voice so that the closest warriors could
hear. ‘In every battle, we lay our lives upon the edge of Khaine’s blade
while Lethruis and his cronies look on.’

‘It is time that changed,’ said Lirieth. ‘Khaine demands sacrifice and
all we offer Him is the sour blood of goblins and the filth of
beastmen.’

‘This is madness,’ said Lethruis. ‘The enemy are almost upon us.’

‘There is no victory without Khaine’s blessing,’ said Hellebron. ‘Did
not Aenarion lay himself before the judgement of Khaine when he took up
the Widowmaker?’

‘We offer you a choice, priest,’ said Lirieth. ‘Your promises to Khaine
must be fulfilled. Did you not say that we all pray to give up ourselves
in Khaine’s name, upon the field of bloodshed? Take up a blade now and
fight for the glory of Khaine and Nagarythe, or we shall offer up your
blood to him this moment!’

‘You are insane, both of you,’ wailed Lethruis. ‘I cannot fight!’

‘No, you cannot,’ said Malriad. ‘You demand our obedience and offer up
prayers to Khaine on our behalf. The Brides of Khaine are right; we have
no need for you. The blood on our blades is offering enough.’

Hellebron looked up in surprise. Though the drugs fogged her brain, she
sensed opportunity, greater than any she had hoped to create. She had
thought that Lethruis would either fight – and die, for he had no skill
at arms – or she would kill him herself. Here was an even better
solution.

‘You are our commander, the wielder of this army, the weapon of Khaine,’
said Hellebron, thrusting her knife into her belt to place a hand on the
prince’s breastplate. She could hear the orcs pounding closer. Arrows
cut the air from both armies and the shouts of the wounded joined the
bellows of the greenskins.

‘Quickly, now, our brave prince!’ Lirieth snapped, guessing her sister’s
intent. ‘Renew your pledges to Khaine with the blood of this coward and
lead your army to victory.’

‘Or believe his lies and bow your knee before a priest that can only
slay the weak and defenceless,’ added Hellebron.

Malriad drew his sword and stepped over the cowering Lethruis.
Hellebron’s breath caught in her throat as Lirieth let go of the priest
and stepped away.

‘For Khaine,’ Hellebron hissed.

The prince plunged his sword into Lethruis’s throat. The priest fell
back, blood spraying from the wound. Hellebron and Lirieth sprang to the
body, allowing the arterial fountain to soak their clothes, daubing the
fresh blood on their faces and naked arms.

The heady thrill of the moment almost caused Hellebron to faint. The
blood dripping down her skin, the scent of it in her nostrils and the
taste on her lips was exquisite. She glanced at Malriad and saw concern,
even regret, in his eyes. The deal with Khaine was not yet fully sealed.

Dipping her fingers into the wound upon the priest’s neck, she turned to
face the prince. With slow purpose, she drew the rune of Khaine upon his
cheek, the blood glistening on Malriad’s pale skin.

‘Khaine blesses you, Prince, and hungers for the praise of your blade,’
she said.

The other acolytes approached uncertainly. They eyed the two
blood-drenched sisters and the army commander, and looked with a mixture
of horror and contempt at Lethruis’s lifeless body.

‘Do not fear, brothers and sisters,’ said Lirieth. ‘You were victims of
Lethruis’s lies. Khaine has spoken through us and we will lead you on
the true path of worship. Take him away.’

‘Wait,’ said Hellebron as the cortège lifted up the limp body. She
worked quickly with her dagger, cutting open the dead elf’s chest. With
swift incisions, she freed the heart and pulled it out, lifting the
organ over her head for all to see. ‘There is no life without death; no
heart beats without Khaine’s blessing!’

As the dead priest was carried away, Malriad mounted his horse and rode
back to his knights, bellowing a stream of orders to his subordinates.
Hellebron looked at the orcs for the first time. They were perhaps a
hundred paces away. Crook-shafted arrows fell into the grass nearby and
another boulder sailed overhead. She looked back to her company and saw
them as strangers. They looked so different from here, a faceless wall
of metal and cloth. She turned her eye upon Lirieth, knowing she shared
her sister’s appearance. She was a fearsome sight, her face a mask of
blood around bright eyes, her hair slicked with dark red.

The two of them stood side-by-side, weapons bared, as the orcs closed
in. Hellebron felt no fear, though a sea of foes descended upon her. The
ireleaf pulsed through her body, fuelling her righteous rage; the
venomblossom filled her limbs with strength and set her heart
thundering. The taste of Lethruis’s blood was fresh on her lips, sweeter
than any wine of Cothique. She could hear Lirieth’s sharp breaths and
feel the warmth of her sister’s body next to her.

‘For Khaine, my sister,’ said Lirieth. ‘Let the red flood begin.’

‘For Khaine,’ Hellebron replied.

The orcs were a mass of metal and green flesh bearing down upon
Hellebron. Bestial grunts filled her ears; glaring red eyes and
snarling, fang-filled mouths filled her vision. Her sword and knife felt
as light as air in her hands. She would not stand idle, to be swept away
by the onrushing tide.

Hellebron sprang to meet the orcs head-on, Lirieth just a pace behind
her. The blood caked on Hellebron’s skin felt more solid than any armour
and the power of Khaine buzzed along every nerve.

Her first blow slit open the throat of an orc, almost taking off its
head. Hellebron laughed, exulting in the freedom. With spear and shield
she had been one of many, disciplined and orderly. Now her spirit was
let loose, unencumbered by drill or command.

The onrushing orcs swept around her. She dived and dodged between their
brutish bodies, blades licking out to cut deep wounds upon faces and
limbs. Even in the tight press of bodies, she was ever-moving, fending
off crude blows while her weapons wove a bloody, mesmerising pattern.

It was utterly reckless, but Hellebron did not care. She laughed again
as she slipped aside from a shield swiping towards her; shrieked with
delight as she ducked beneath a swinging cleaver.

A crash of metal engulfed her. She turned, pulling the edge of her sword
across the back of an orc’s neck, and saw that the Naggarothi had
countercharged. A line of spears drove into the orcs, punching through
leather jerkins, piercing eye sockets, slashing and stabbing.

Cutting down another greenskin, Hellebron came face-to-face with
Lirieth. Her sister’s eyes were wide with excitement, just as they had
been during Hellebron’s first Khainite sacrifice. They shared a glance
and wheeled away. Spinning on her heel, Hellebron drove her dagger into
the open mouth of an orc, forcing the point up into its tiny brain. She
whipped her hand back as its jaws instinctively snapped shut. She heard
the ring of metal on metal and glanced over her shoulder to see
Lirieth’s sword, less than a hand’s span from her back, an orcish blade
spinning to the ground.

‘It is not only Khaine who watches over me, sister,’ said Hellebron,
ducking beneath Lirieth’s extended arm to drive her sword into the gut
of an orc raising a club to strike down her sister.

Lirieth swept low, her blade cutting through the leg of the orc.
Hellebron ripped her sword free from its stomach as it fell, swaying to
her right to avoid the edge of a shield thrust towards her. She kicked
the shield to one side and pounced, driving her knife into the side of
the orc’s neck.

The orcs fell back from the sisters and the spears, turning to run.
Hellebron heard the call of a clarion signalling to hold the line, but
it was drowned out by the rushing of blood, the beat of her heart.

‘Let none escape!’ she shrieked, turning on the Naggarothi. The warriors
halted, torn between their desire to run down the orcs and the command
ringing from the musician. ‘Khaine demands their deaths!’

Lirieth and Hellebron leapt after the fleeing greenskins. Caught up by
their display, the Naggarothi surged after them, ignoring the shouts of
their captains. Like a blood-tipped spearhead, the company fell upon the
routed greenskins, plunging deep, cutting the orcs down as they tried to
flee.

Hellebron dashed after the enemy, hacking at their exposed backs,
slicing through hamstrings and spines.

‘Sister!’

Lirieth’s cry halted Hellebron instantly. She slid to a stop amidst the
mud and gore, suddenly aware that the ground was shaking. Turning to the
right, Hellebron saw the orc boar-riders thundering down the hill
towards her. The spearmen hurriedly re-formed their ranks, drawn out of
formation by their hasty pursuit of the greenskins.

The orcish cavalry was almost upon Hellebron. She could smell the stench
of the boars, feel the ground trembling, see the clods of dirt kicked up
by the creatures’ metal-shod trotters. The orcs hunched over their
mounts, gripping thick ruffs of hair as reins, iron-tipped spears
lowered for the charge. She could feel the angry excitement of the
greenskins as they swept down upon their seemingly doomed prey.

A glance back showed Hellebron that she was too far from the safety of
the swiftly assembling phalanx; to run now was to invite a spear in the
back.

Hellebron picked out the largest rider, a dark-skinned beast almost
twice as big as an elf. The orc wore plates of stiffened hide, dyed
black and strengthened with spiked rivets; links of mail hung from its
armour, no doubt looted from dead dwarfs. Its helm was a simple metal
bowl, with leather flaps hanging to either side of the creature’s
howling face.

With a flick of her wrists, Hellebron brought up her sword and dagger.
She met the orc’s stare with her own fury, her lips curling back from
blood-flecked teeth even as the orc opened its huge mouth to bellow at
her.

Hellebron waited, snarling and hissing, as the orc rushed closer and
closer. She could feel the steaming breath of the boar and its rider,
smelled the stench of dung. The orc’s battered speartip was coming
straight towards her, aimed at her chest. Hellebron’s eyes narrowed as
she watched the spearhead cutting through the wet air, droplets of water
splashing from the iron.

At the last moment, Hellebron brought up her knife, knocking the spear
away by just enough. As it passed her right shoulder, she jumped
forwards, planting her foot between the eyes of the boar. As the
creature’s momentum carried it forwards, Hellebron sprang into the air,
her sword chopping down into the shoulder of the rider as she
somersaulted.

Landing in the mud, she dived to her right to avoid the next boar,
rolling to her feet in front of another. Hellebron caught the spearshaft
of the rider under her arm and cut through the orc’s wrist. Unbalanced,
the orc toppled from the boar with a crash. A moment later, she drove
the captured spear through its cheek, pinning the greenskin to the
ground.

More orcs rode past, too slow-witted to react to Hellebron. She slammed
her sword into the chest of one as it desperately tried to haul its boar
into her. The shock of the impact almost threw her off her feet; only by
an acrobatic twist did she not end up face-first in the mire.

And then the orcs were gone, thundering on into the spear company.

Hellebron spun round to see what had become of Lirieth. The boar-riders
smashed into the front rank of the Naggarothi, hurling back the elves,
stabbing and trampling everything in their path. Rocked but not broken,
the surviving Naggarothi parted before the charge and then fell upon the
flanks of the orcish mob, quickly surrounding them.

In the chaos of shields, spears and swords, Hellebron caught a glimpse
of a pale figure dragging an orc from its mount, dagger punching
repeatedly into the creature’s chest; Lirieth was alive and still
fighting with the fury of Khaine.

Hellebron’s arms and legs moved heavily now, and her head began to
thump. She gasped for air and felt a pain in her ribs. Looking down, she
saw a spreading bruise through her slashed clothes. There was also a cut
on her shoulder she had not felt, and her muscles trembled with fatigue.

She felt the same as she did after a sacrifice; the venomblossom was
beginning to wear off. The ground underfoot was uneven, ripped up by the
charging boars. Hellebron stumbled on a tussock of grass, her legs like
lead. Scrunching her eyes against the pain, she slowly turned to see
what was happening along the rest of the line.

To the north Prince Malriad and his knights were scattering hundreds of
goblins, riding down the small greenskins, hacking with swords and axes.
Beyond them Hellebron saw the green-scaled body of the wyvern, dark
bolts protruding from its flesh, ragged holes torn in its limply
flapping wings. Another salvo from the bolt-throwers thudded into the
monster, hammering into its exposed belly. Of its rider there was no
sign.

All around, the Naggarothi were advancing victoriously. Riders darted to
and fro, carrying the orders of the commander as the remnants of the
greenskin horde fled back to the west. Closer at hand, the boar-riders
were falling to the spears of the elves.

The Naggarothi had not avoided death either. Wounded elves dragged
themselves through the muck or were borne away on stretchers by their
comrades. Weapons and shields lay scattered along the line next to the
mail-clad bodies of the dead. A few banners flapped from broken poles,
dropped into the mud. Orcish icons had also been discarded, their rusted
iron faces and skull totems looking forlornly at the destruction.

Grunts and snorts from wounded orcs attracted Hellebron’s attention.
Some hobbled away clutching gaping wounds and nursing broken limbs.
Others lay beneath the carcasses of their boars, bones crushed. A few
continued to snarl viciously, staggering and crawling around with their
blades and mauls, wounds ripped across their faces, missing arms or
legs.

Thrusting her dagger into her belt, Hellebron pulled open a pouch and
took a pinch of crushed purple petals. She chewed quickly, ignoring the
bitter taste; venomblossom was much more palatable mixed with blood.

It took a moment for the narcotic to have its effect. As quickly as it
had failed, her energy returned. The pain disappeared, leaving her
feeling as fresh as if she had woken from a full night’s sleep.

She saw the spearmen moving across the field, slaying the wounded enemy.

‘Do not kill them!’ Hellebron cried out, striding back to the
Naggarothi. ‘Take them alive. For the blessings He has given us this
day, Khaine’s hunger will be great tonight!’

Led by Hellebron and Lirieth, the celebrations of the Naggarothi were
raucous and lasted for several days. Espousing her philosophy that all
could worship Khaine equally, Hellebron organised rituals that allowed
the warriors and camp-followers to participate in the gory festivities.
Nearly two hundred greenskins of varying size and condition had been
taken prisoner and each night for three nights they were brought out to
be offered up to the Lord of Murder.

Prince Malriad officiated over the greatest rite on the first night,
carving apart the remains of Lethruis, denouncing the dead priest as a
traitor to Khaine, Nagarythe and Prince Malekith. As Lethruis charred in
the flames, Hellebron announced that a new age of the Naggarothi was
dawning. With the prince by her side, she exhorted the army to be proud
of their deeds, to remember the debt they owed to Khaine when they
returned to their homes.

Lirieth opened up the stores of the cult, giving out venomblossom,
dreamleaf and shadowdust to those that were most demonstrative in their
praise of Khaine. Every company had their own pyre and their own
sacrifice; some despatched the greenskins quickly, with solemn ceremony;
others followed Hellebron’s lead, inflicting horrendous wounds upon the
resilient orcs before finally slashing out their organs and hurling them
onto the fires; some even offered up their own blood, cutting themselves
with their weapons to sprinkle their crimson offerings on the fires or
drink each other’s life fluid.

The smoke of the fires blotted out the sky. A great charnel pile grew
downwind of the camp, where the cracked and burned bones of the
greenskins were heaped upon the ashes of the pyres. Given release from
their tiresome duties by Hellebron, the former acolytes of Lethruis were
savage, screeching and screaming as more and more blood was spilt,
urging on the meekest observers to come forwards and take up the
sacrificial daggers in Khaine’s name.

On the third and final night, as the last of the captives was thrown
alive into the flames, the orc’s howls of agony dying away to silence,
Hellebron and Lirieth strode out before the crowd, clothed only in dried
blood, their hair twisted and matted with the gore of their victims.

‘We are free!’ Lirieth declared. ‘Khaine has set us free!’

‘The spirit of Khaine fills each of us tonight,’ said Hellebron.
‘Tomorrow, the fires will die, and we shall wash the blood from our
blades. Yet Khaine will hunger still. He has gorged on the bounty of our
might as we have known victory by the strength of His blessings. By the
blood of elves was Ulthuan saved; by the blood of great Aenarion himself
were we delivered from disaster. By our bloody work have we wrested
these lands from savagery, and for the moment we might be fooled into
thinking that peace will prevail.

‘This world of ours will never know peace, for Khaine will never be
sated. It may be a year, ten years or a hundred, until we are called
upon to shed our blood again. Yet in those quiet hours, in those days of
false repose, never forget that there still live the things of darkness
that seek to destroy our lives, steal our spirits and enslave us to
their accursed whims.

‘We can never afford to let Khaine slumber. Without His gift, without
His bloody will to guide us, we will grow lax, we will grow weak. Our
enemies will return and we shall be destroyed. Keep Khaine in your
hearts, hold Him there for the strength He gives us.’

‘For Khaine!’ Lirieth led the cry, holding up her bloodied knife.

‘For Khaine!’ the army cried in return, brandishing their weapons.

Hellebron looked out at the sea of faces, the flicker of the flames
causing their eyes to dance with cruel glee. She saw the bloodstained
swords and daggers and spears, and finally felt the adoration she so
long had feared might never come. As the Naggarothi called out Khaine’s
name again, Hellebron basked in the moment, sweeter still than anything
she might have imagined.

This was glory. This was power.

Tomorrow they would march to Athel Toralien. Not this time the ignominy,
the quiet reception. This time her name would spread, her deeds on the
lips of every elf of the city.

Khaine had shown her the way, and she would repay him.
